content/zh/faq/security/cert-lifetime-config.md, before:

---
title: 如何配置 Istio 证书的有效期？
weight: 70
---

对于在 Kubernetes 上运行的工作负载来说，它们的 Istio 证书有效期是受到 Citadel 的 `workload-cert-ttl` 标志控制的。缺省值是 90 天。这个值不能大于 Citadel 的 `max-workload-cert-ttl`。

Citadel 使用标志 `max-workload-cert-ttl` 对 Istio 签发给工作负载的证书的有效期进行控制。缺省值是 90 天。如果 Citadel 或者 Node agent 中的 `workload-cert-ttl` 大于 `max-workload-cert-ttl`，Citadel 的证书签发就会失败。

可以对文件 `istio-demo.yaml` 进行修改，从而对 Citadel 配置进行定制。下面的修改过程，让 Istio 为 Kubernetes 工作负载签发有效期为一小时的证书。并且 Istio 签发证书的最长有效期被设置为 48 小时。

{{< text plain >}}
...
kind: Deployment
...
metadata:
  name: istio-citadel
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  ...
  template:
    ...
    spec:
      ...
      containers:
      - name: citadel
        ...
        args:
          - --workload-cert-ttl=1h # 签发给 Kubernetes 工作负载的证书的有效期。
          - --max-workload-cert-ttl=48h # Citadel 签发给 Kubernetes 工作负载的证书的最大有效期。
{{< /text >}}

对于运行于物理机或者虚拟机上的工作负载来说，他们的 Istio 证书有效期是由每个 Node agent 的 `workload-cert-ttl` 决定的。其缺省值同样也是 90 天，这个值也不允许超出 Citadel 的 `max-workload-cert-ttl` 选项的值。

要定制这一配置，要在完成[设置虚拟机](/zh/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/mesh-expansion/#setting-up-the-machines)步骤之后，对 Node agent 服务（`/lib/systemd/system/istio-auth-node-agent.service`）的参数进行修改。

{{< text plain >}}
...
[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/node_agent --workload-cert-ttl=24h # 设置本机的证书有效时间。
Restart=always
StartLimitInterval=0
RestartSec=10
...
{{< /text >}}

上面的配置中要求 Istio 为虚拟机或物理机上运行的工作负载签发 24 小时有效期的证书。完成服务配置之后，需要重新启动 Node agent 服务。

Commit message:

zh-translation: initialize the translation content (#5305)
* zh-translation: initialize the translation content

- Restart the Chinese translation precess, refer to https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/5250
- Translation progress is tracked on https://github.com/servicemesher/istio-official-translation

content/zh/faq/security/cert-lifetime-config.md, after:

---
title: How to configure the lifetime for Istio certificates?
weight: 70
---

For the workloads running in Kubernetes, the lifetime of their Istio certificates is controlled by the
`workload-cert-ttl` flag on Citadel. The default value is 90 days. This value should be no greater than
`max-workload-cert-ttl` of Citadel.

Citadel uses a flag `max-workload-cert-ttl` to control the maximum lifetime for Istio certificates issued to
workloads. The default value is 90 days. If `workload-cert-ttl` on Citadel or node agent is greater than
`max-workload-cert-ttl`, Citadel will fail issuing the certificate.

Modify the `istio-demo.yaml` file to customize the Citadel configuration.
The following modification specifies that the Istio certificates for workloads running in Kubernetes
has 1 hours lifetime. Besides that, the maximum allowed Istio certificate lifetime is 48 hours.

{{< text plain >}}
...
kind: Deployment
...
metadata:
  name: istio-citadel
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  ...
  template:
    ...
    spec:
      ...
      containers:
      - name: citadel
        ...
        args:
          - --workload-cert-ttl=1h # Lifetime of certificates issued to workloads in Kubernetes.
          - --max-workload-cert-ttl=48h # Maximum lifetime of certificates issued to workloads by Citadel.
{{< /text >}}

For the workloads running on VMs and bare metal hosts, the lifetime of their Istio certificates is specified by the
`workload-cert-ttl` flag on each node agent. The default value is also 90 days. This value should be no greater than
`max-workload-cert-ttl` of Citadel.

To customize this configuration, the argument for the node agent service should be modified.
After [setting up the machines](/docs/examples/mesh-expansion/single-network/#setting-up-the-vm) for Istio
mesh expansion, modify the file `/lib/systemd/system/istio-auth-node-agent.service` on the VMs or bare metal hosts:

{{< text plain >}}
...
[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/node_agent --workload-cert-ttl=24h # Specify certificate lifetime for workloads on this machine.
Restart=always
StartLimitInterval=0
RestartSec=10
...
{{< /text >}}

The above configuration specifies that the Istio certificates for workloads running on this VM or bare metal host
will have 24 hours lifetime.

After configuring the service, restart the node agent by running `systemctl daemon-reload`.
