content/zh/faq/security/k8s-health-checks.md, before:

---
title: 当启用双向 TLS 认证时应该如何使用 Kubernetes liveness 和 readiness 对服务进行健康检查？
weight: 50
---
如果启用了双向 TLS 认证，则来自 kubelet 的 http 和 tcp 健康检查将不能正常工作，因为 kubelet 没有 Istio 颁发的证书。

从 Istio 1.0 开始，针对服务新增了 [`PERMISSIVE` 模式](/docs/tasks/security/mtls-migration)
，因此当这个模式打开时他们可以接受 http 和双向 TLS 流量。这可以解决健康检查问题。
请记住，双向 TLS 没有强制执行，因为其他服务可以使用 http 流量与该服务进行通信。

您可以使用单独的端口进行健康检查，并只在常规服务端口上启用双向 TLS。请参阅 [Istio 服务的健康检查](/docs/ops/app-health-check/)了解更多信息。

由于存在新功能的风险，我们默认情况下不会启用上述功能。未来的推出计划将在 [GitHub 问题](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/10357)上进行跟踪。

为了降低风险，另一种解决方法是对健康检查使用 [liveness 命令](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/#define-a-liveness-command)，例如，可以在服务 Pod 中安装 `curl` 并在 Pod 内对自身执行 `curl` 操作。

一个 readiness 探针的例子：

{{< text yaml >}}
livenessProbe:
exec:
  command:
  - curl
  - -f
  - http://localhost:8080/healthz # Replace port and URI by your actual health check
initialDelaySeconds: 10
periodSeconds: 5
{{< /text >}}

Commit message:

zh-translation: initialize the translation content (#5305)
* zh-translation: initialize the translation content

- Restart the Chinese translation precess, refer to https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/5250
- Translation progress is tracked on https://github.com/servicemesher/istio-official-translation

content/zh/faq/security/k8s-health-checks.md, after:

---
title: How can I use Kubernetes liveness and readiness for pod health checks when mutual TLS is enabled?
weight: 50
---

If mutual TLS is enabled, HTTP and TCP health checks from the kubelet will not work without modification, since the kubelet does not have Istio-issued certificates.

As of Istio 1.1, we have several options to solve this issue.

1.  Using probe rewrite to redirect liveness and readiness requests to the
    workload directly. Please refer to [Probe Rewrite](/docs/ops/setup/app-health-check/#probe-rewrite)
    for more information.

1.  Using a separate port for health checks and enabling mutual TLS only on the regular service port. Please refer to [Health Checking of Istio Services](/docs/ops/setup/app-health-check/#separate-port) for more information.

1.  Using the [`PERMISSIVE` mode](/docs/tasks/security/mtls-migration) for Istio services so they can accept both HTTP and mutual TLS traffic. Please keep in mind that mutual TLS is not enforced since others can communicate with the service with HTTP traffic.

1.  Using a [liveness command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/#define-a-liveness-command) for health checks, e.g., one can install `curl` in the service pod and
`curl` itself within the pod.

An example of a readiness probe:

{{< text yaml >}}
livenessProbe:
exec:
  command:
  - curl
  - -f
  - http://localhost:8080/healthz # Replace port and URI by your actual health check
initialDelaySeconds: 10
periodSeconds: 5
{{< /text >}}
