content/docs/tasks/telemetry/using-istio-dashboard/index.md, before:

---
title: Visualizing Metrics with Grafana
description: This task shows you how to setup and use the Istio Dashboard to monitor mesh traffic.
weight: 40
keywords: [telemetry,visualization]
---

This task shows you how to setup and use the Istio Dashboard to monitor mesh
traffic. As part of this task, you will install the Grafana Istio add-on and use
the web-based interface for viewing service mesh traffic data.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

## Viewing the Istio Dashboard

1.  Verify that the `prometheus` service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get svc prometheus
    NAME         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    prometheus   10.59.241.54   <none>        9090/TCP   2m
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Verify that the Grafana service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get svc grafana
    NAME      CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    grafana   10.59.247.103   <none>        3000/TCP   2m
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Open the Istio Dashboard via the Grafana UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=grafana -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 3000:3000 &
    {{< /text >}}

    Visit [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard) in your web browser.

    The Istio Dashboard will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./grafana-istio-dashboard.png" caption="Istio Dashboard" >}}

1.  Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
    {{< /text >}}

    > `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.

    Refresh the page a few times (or send the command a few times) to generate a
    small amount of traffic.

    Look at the Istio Dashboard again. It should reflect the traffic that was
    generated. It will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./dashboard-with-traffic.png" caption="Istio Dashboard With Traffic" >}}

    This gives the global view of the Mesh along with services and workloads in the mesh.
    You can get more details about services and workloads by navigating to their specific dashboards as explained below.

1.  Visualize Service Dashboards.

    From the Grafana dashboard's left hand corner navigation menu, you can navigate to Istio Service Dashboard or visit
    [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-service-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-service-dashboard) in your web browser.

    The Istio Service Dashboard will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./istio-service-dashboard.png" caption="Istio Service Dashboard" >}}

    This gives details about metrics for the service and then client workloads (workloads that are calling this service)
    and service workloads (workloads that are providing this service) for that service.

1.  Visualize Workload Dashboards.

    From the Grafana dashboard's left hand corner navigation menu, you can navigate to Istio Workload Dashboard or visit
    [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-workload-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-workload-dashboard) in your web browser.

    The Istio Workload Dashboard will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./istio-workload-dashboard.png" caption="Istio Workload Dashboard" >}}

    This gives details about metrics for each workload and then inbound workloads (workloads that are sending request to
    this workload) and outbound services (services to which this workload send requests) for that workload.

### About the Grafana add-on

The Grafana add-on is a preconfigured instance of Grafana. The base image
([`grafana/grafana:5.2.3`](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/grafana/)) has been
modified to start with both a Prometheus data source and the Istio Dashboard
installed. The base install files for Istio, and Mixer in particular, ship with
a default configuration of global (used for every service) metrics. The Istio
Dashboard is built to be used in conjunction with the default Istio metrics
configuration and a Prometheus backend.

The Istio Dashboard consists of three main sections:

1. A Mesh Summary View. This section provides Global Summary view of the Mesh and shows HTTP/gRPC and TCP
   workloads in the Mesh.

1. Individual Services View. This section provides metrics about requests and
   responses for each individual service within the mesh (HTTP/gRPC and TCP).
   Also, give metrics about client and service workloads for this service.

1. Individual Workloads View: This section provides metrics about requests and
   responses for each individual workloads within the mesh (HTTP/gRPC and TCP).
   Also, give metrics about inbound workloads and outbound services for this workload.

For more on how to create, configure, and edit dashboards, please see the
[Grafana documentation](https://docs.grafana.org/).

## Cleanup

*   Remove any `kubectl port-forward` processes that may be running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ killall kubectl
    {{< /text >}}

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
[Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
to shutdown the application.

Commit message:

Add info about grafana add-on (#3011)
* Add info about grafana add-on

* helm installation options

* stylistic changes from review

* more styling changes from review

* styling changes

* linting fix

content/docs/tasks/telemetry/using-istio-dashboard/index.md, after:

---
title: Visualizing Metrics with Grafana
description: This task shows you how to setup and use the Istio Dashboard to monitor mesh traffic.
weight: 40
keywords: [telemetry,visualization]
---

This task shows you how to setup and use the Istio Dashboard to monitor mesh
traffic. As part of this task, you will use the Grafana Istio add-on and
the web-based interface for viewing service mesh traffic data.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio](/docs/setup) in your cluster. If you are installing using Helm, enable the Grafana add-on `--set grafana.enabled=true` [option](/docs/reference/config/installation-options/).
* Deploy [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) application.

## Viewing the Istio Dashboard

1.  Verify that the `prometheus` service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get svc prometheus
    NAME         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    prometheus   10.59.241.54   <none>        9090/TCP   2m
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Verify that the Grafana service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get svc grafana
    NAME      CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    grafana   10.59.247.103   <none>        3000/TCP   2m
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Open the Istio Dashboard via the Grafana UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=grafana -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 3000:3000 &
    {{< /text >}}

    Visit [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard) in your web browser.

    The Istio Dashboard will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./grafana-istio-dashboard.png" caption="Istio Dashboard" >}}

1.  Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
    {{< /text >}}

    > `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.

    Refresh the page a few times (or send the command a few times) to generate a
    small amount of traffic.

    Look at the Istio Dashboard again. It should reflect the traffic that was
    generated. It will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./dashboard-with-traffic.png" caption="Istio Dashboard With Traffic" >}}

    This gives the global view of the Mesh along with services and workloads in the mesh.
    You can get more details about services and workloads by navigating to their specific dashboards as explained below.

1.  Visualize Service Dashboards.

    From the Grafana dashboard's left hand corner navigation menu, you can navigate to Istio Service Dashboard or visit
    [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-service-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-service-dashboard) in your web browser.

    The Istio Service Dashboard will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./istio-service-dashboard.png" caption="Istio Service Dashboard" >}}

    This gives details about metrics for the service and then client workloads (workloads that are calling this service)
    and service workloads (workloads that are providing this service) for that service.

1.  Visualize Workload Dashboards.

    From the Grafana dashboard's left hand corner navigation menu, you can navigate to Istio Workload Dashboard or visit
    [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-workload-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-workload-dashboard) in your web browser.

    The Istio Workload Dashboard will look similar to:

    {{< image link="./istio-workload-dashboard.png" caption="Istio Workload Dashboard" >}}

    This gives details about metrics for each workload and then inbound workloads (workloads that are sending request to
    this workload) and outbound services (services to which this workload send requests) for that workload.

### About the Grafana add-on

The Grafana add-on is a preconfigured instance of Grafana. The base image
([`grafana/grafana:5.2.3`](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/grafana/)) has been
modified to start with both a Prometheus data source and the Istio Dashboard
installed. The base install files for Istio, and Mixer in particular, ship with
a default configuration of global (used for every service) metrics. The Istio
Dashboard is built to be used in conjunction with the default Istio metrics
configuration and a Prometheus backend.

The Istio Dashboard consists of three main sections:

1. A Mesh Summary View. This section provides Global Summary view of the Mesh and shows HTTP/gRPC and TCP
   workloads in the Mesh.

1. Individual Services View. This section provides metrics about requests and
   responses for each individual service within the mesh (HTTP/gRPC and TCP).
   Also, give metrics about client and service workloads for this service.

1. Individual Workloads View: This section provides metrics about requests and
   responses for each individual workloads within the mesh (HTTP/gRPC and TCP).
   Also, give metrics about inbound workloads and outbound services for this workload.

For more on how to create, configure, and edit dashboards, please see the
[Grafana documentation](https://docs.grafana.org/).

## Cleanup

*   Remove any `kubectl port-forward` processes that may be running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ killall kubectl
    {{< /text >}}

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
[Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
to shutdown the application.
