content/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/index.md, before:

---
title: Distributed Tracing
description: How to configure the proxies to send tracing requests to Zipkin or Jaeger
weight: 10
keywords: [telemetry,tracing]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/zipkin-tracing.html
---

This task shows you how Istio-enabled applications can be configured to collect trace spans.
After completing this task, you should understand all of the assumptions about your
application and how to have it participate in tracing, regardless of what
language/framework/platform you use to build your application.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample is used as the
example application for this task.

## Before you begin

*   Setup Istio by following the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

    Either use the `istio.yaml` (or `istio-demo-auth.yaml`) template, which includes tracing support, or
    use the helm chart with tracing enabled using the `--set tracing.enabled=true` option.

* Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

## Accessing the dashboard

Setup access to the tracing dashboard URL using port-forwarding:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl port-forward -n istio-system $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=jaeger -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 16686:16686 &
{{< /text >}}

Then open your browser at [http://localhost:16686](http://localhost:16686)

## Generating traces using the Bookinfo sample

With the Bookinfo application up and running, generate trace information by accessing
`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` one or more times.

If you now look at the dashboard, you should see something similar to the following:

{{< image width="100%" ratio="42.35%"
    link="./istio-tracing-list.png"
    caption="Tracing Dashboard"
    >}}

If you click on the top (most recent) trace, you should see the details corresponding to your
latest refresh of the `/productpage`.
The page should look something like this:

{{< image width="100%" ratio="42.35%"
    link="./istio-tracing-details.png"
    caption="Detailed Trace View"
    >}}

As you can see, the trace is comprised of spans,
where each span corresponds to a Bookinfo service invoked during the execution of a `/productpage` request.
Although every service has the same label, `istio-proxy`, because the tracing is being done by
the Istio sidecar (Envoy proxy) which wraps the call to the actual service,
the label of the destination (to the right) identifies the service for which the time is represented by each line.

The first line represents the external call to the `productpage` service. The label `192.168.64.3:32000` is the host
value used for the external request (i.e., `$GATEWAY_URL`). As you can see in the trace,
the request took a total of roughly 290ms to complete. During its execution, the `productpage` called the `details` service,
which took about 24ms, and then called the `reviews` service.
The `reviews` service took about 243ms to execute, including a 15ms call to `ratings`.

## Understanding what happened

Although Istio proxies are able to automatically send spans, they need some hints to tie together the entire trace.
Applications need to propagate the appropriate HTTP headers so that when the proxies send span information,
the spans can be correlated correctly into a single trace.

To do this, an application needs to collect and propagate the following headers from the incoming request to any outgoing requests:

* `x-request-id`
* `x-b3-traceid`
* `x-b3-spanid`
* `x-b3-parentspanid`
* `x-b3-sampled`
* `x-b3-flags`
* `x-ot-span-context`

If you look in the sample services, you can see that the productpage application (Python) extracts the required headers from an HTTP request:

{{< text python >}}
def getForwardHeaders(request):
    headers = {}

    user_cookie = request.cookies.get("user")
    if user_cookie:
        headers['Cookie'] = 'user=' + user_cookie

    incoming_headers = [ 'x-request-id',
                         'x-b3-traceid',
                         'x-b3-spanid',
                         'x-b3-parentspanid',
                         'x-b3-sampled',
                         'x-b3-flags',
                         'x-ot-span-context'
    ]

    for ihdr in incoming_headers:
        val = request.headers.get(ihdr)
        if val is not None:
            headers[ihdr] = val
            #print "incoming: "+ihdr+":"+val

    return headers
{{< /text >}}

The reviews application (Java) does something similar:

{{< text jzvz >}}
@GET
@Path("/reviews")
public Response bookReviews(@CookieParam("user") Cookie user,
                            @HeaderParam("x-request-id") String xreq,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-traceid") String xtraceid,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-spanid") String xspanid,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-parentspanid") String xparentspanid,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-sampled") String xsampled,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-flags") String xflags,
                            @HeaderParam("x-ot-span-context") String xotspan) {
  String r1 = "";
  String r2 = "";

  if(ratings_enabled){
    JsonObject ratings = getRatings(user, xreq, xtraceid, xspanid, xparentspanid, xsampled, xflags, xotspan);
{{< /text >}}

When you make downstream calls in your applications, make sure to include these headers.

## Cleanup

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

Commit message:

Adds a Jaeger UI detail for distributed tracing (#1761)

content/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/index.md, after:

---
title: Distributed Tracing
description: How to configure the proxies to send tracing requests to Zipkin or Jaeger
weight: 10
keywords: [telemetry,tracing]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/zipkin-tracing.html
---

This task shows you how Istio-enabled applications can be configured to collect trace spans.
After completing this task, you should understand all of the assumptions about your
application and how to have it participate in tracing, regardless of what
language/framework/platform you use to build your application.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample is used as the
example application for this task.

## Before you begin

*   Setup Istio by following the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

    Either use the `istio-demo.yaml` or `istio-demo-auth.yaml` template, which includes tracing support, or
    use the helm chart with tracing enabled by setting the `--set tracing.enabled=true` option.

* Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

## Accessing the dashboard

Setup access to the Jaeger dashboard by using port-forwarding:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl port-forward -n istio-system $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=jaeger -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 16686:16686 &
{{< /text >}}

Access the Jaeger dashboard by opening your browser to [http://localhost:16686](http://localhost:16686).

## Generating traces using the Bookinfo sample

With the Bookinfo application up and running, generate trace information by accessing
`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` one or more times.

From the left-hand pane of the Jaeger dashboard, select productpage from the Service drop-down list and click
Find Traces. You should see something similar to the following:

{{< image width="100%" ratio="42.35%"
    link="./istio-tracing-list.png"
    caption="Tracing Dashboard"
    >}}

If you click on the top (most recent) trace, you should see the details corresponding to your
latest refresh of the `/productpage`.
The page should look something like this:

{{< image width="100%" ratio="42.35%"
    link="./istio-tracing-details.png"
    caption="Detailed Trace View"
    >}}

As you can see, the trace is comprised of spans,
where each span corresponds to a Bookinfo service invoked during the execution of a `/productpage` request.
Although every service has the same label, `istio-proxy`, because the tracing is being done by
the Istio sidecar (Envoy proxy) which wraps the call to the actual service,
the label of the destination (to the right) identifies the service for which the time is represented by each line.

The first line represents the external call to the `productpage` service. The label `192.168.64.3:32000` is the host
value used for the external request (i.e., `$GATEWAY_URL`). As you can see in the trace,
the request took a total of roughly 290ms to complete. During its execution, the `productpage` called the `details` service,
which took about 24ms, and then called the `reviews` service.
The `reviews` service took about 243ms to execute, including a 15ms call to `ratings`.

## Understanding what happened

Although Istio proxies are able to automatically send spans, they need some hints to tie together the entire trace.
Applications need to propagate the appropriate HTTP headers so that when the proxies send span information,
the spans can be correlated correctly into a single trace.

To do this, an application needs to collect and propagate the following headers from the incoming request to any outgoing requests:

* `x-request-id`
* `x-b3-traceid`
* `x-b3-spanid`
* `x-b3-parentspanid`
* `x-b3-sampled`
* `x-b3-flags`
* `x-ot-span-context`

If you look in the sample services, you can see that the productpage application (Python) extracts the required headers from an HTTP request:

{{< text python >}}
def getForwardHeaders(request):
    headers = {}

    user_cookie = request.cookies.get("user")
    if user_cookie:
        headers['Cookie'] = 'user=' + user_cookie

    incoming_headers = [ 'x-request-id',
                         'x-b3-traceid',
                         'x-b3-spanid',
                         'x-b3-parentspanid',
                         'x-b3-sampled',
                         'x-b3-flags',
                         'x-ot-span-context'
    ]

    for ihdr in incoming_headers:
        val = request.headers.get(ihdr)
        if val is not None:
            headers[ihdr] = val
            #print "incoming: "+ihdr+":"+val

    return headers
{{< /text >}}

The reviews application (Java) does something similar:

{{< text jzvz >}}
@GET
@Path("/reviews")
public Response bookReviews(@CookieParam("user") Cookie user,
                            @HeaderParam("x-request-id") String xreq,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-traceid") String xtraceid,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-spanid") String xspanid,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-parentspanid") String xparentspanid,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-sampled") String xsampled,
                            @HeaderParam("x-b3-flags") String xflags,
                            @HeaderParam("x-ot-span-context") String xotspan) {
  String r1 = "";
  String r2 = "";

  if(ratings_enabled){
    JsonObject ratings = getRatings(user, xreq, xtraceid, xspanid, xparentspanid, xsampled, xflags, xotspan);
{{< /text >}}

When you make downstream calls in your applications, make sure to include these headers.

## Cleanup

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.
