content/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/multicluster/gateways/index.md, before:

---
title: Gateway Connectivity
description: Install an Istio mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods.
weight: 2
aliases:
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/multicluster-install/gateways/
keywords: [kubernetes,multicluster,federation,gateway]
---

Instructions for installing an Istio [multicluster service mesh](/docs/concepts/multicluster-deployments/)
where Kubernetes cluster services and applications in each cluster are limited to remote communication using gateway IPs.

Instead of using a central Istio control plane to manage the mesh,
in this configuration each cluster has an **identical** Istio control plane
installation, each managing its own endpoints.
All of the clusters are under a shared administrative control for the purposes of
policy enforcement and security.

A single Istio service mesh across the clusters is achieved by replicating
shared services and namespaces and using a common root CA in all of the clusters.
Cross-cluster communication occurs over Istio Gateways of the respective clusters.

{{< image width="80%" link="./multicluster-with-gateways.svg" caption="Istio mesh spanning multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods" >}}

## Prerequisites

* Two or more Kubernetes clusters with **1.10 or newer**.

* Authority to deploy the [Istio control plane using Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/)
on **each** Kubernetes cluster.

* The IP address of the `istio-ingressgateway` service in each cluster must
  be accessible from every other cluster.

* A **Root CA**. Cross cluster communication requires mutual TLS connection
  between services. To enable mutual TLS communication across clusters, each
  cluster's Citadel will be configured with intermediate CA credentials
  generated by a shared root CA. For illustration purposes, we use a
  sample root CA certificate available in the Istio installation
  under the `samples/certs` directory.

## Deploy the Istio control plane in each cluster

1. Generate intermediate CA certificates for each cluster's Citadel from your
    organization's root CA. The shared root CA enables mutual TLS communication
    across different clusters.

    {{< tip >}}
    For illustration purposes, the following instructions use the certificates
    from the Istio samples directory for both clusters. In real world deployments,
    you would likely use a different CA certificate for each cluster, all signed
    by a common root CA.
    {{< /tip >}}

1. Generate a multicluster-gateways Istio configuration file using `helm`:

    {{< warning >}}
    If you're not sure if your `helm` dependencies are up to date, update them using the
    command shown in [Helm installation steps](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#installation-steps)
    before running the following command.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
        -f @install/kubernetes/helm/istio/example-values/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml@ > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    For further details and customization options, refer to the
    [Installation with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/) instructions.

1. Run the following commands in **every cluster** to deploy an identical Istio control plane
   configuration in all of them.

    * Create a Kubernetes secret for your generated CA certificates using a command similar to the following. See [Certificate Authority (CA) certificates](/docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert/#plugging-in-the-existing-certificate-and-key) for more details.

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl create namespace istio-system
        $ kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/ca-cert.pem@ \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/ca-key.pem@ \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/root-cert.pem@ \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/cert-chain.pem@
        {{< /text >}}

    * Follow the [Helm Installation Steps](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#installation-steps) to install Istio. You must pass in the flag `--values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml` to helm to use the correct multicluster settings. For example, using the Helm Install option:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ helm install istio --name istio --namespace istio-system --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml
        {{< /text >}}

## Setup DNS

Providing DNS resolution for services in remote clusters will allow
existing applications to function unmodified, as applications typically
expect to resolve services by their DNS names and access the resulting
IP. Istio itself does not use the DNS for routing requests between
services. Services local to a cluster share a common DNS suffix
(e.g., `svc.cluster.local`). Kubernetes DNS provides DNS resolution for these
services.

To provide a similar setup for services from remote clusters, we name
services from remote clusters in the format
`<name>.<namespace>.global`. Istio also ships with a CoreDNS server that
will provide DNS resolution for these services. In order to utilize this
DNS, Kubernetes' DNS needs to be configured to point to CoreDNS as the DNS
server for the `.global` DNS domain.

Create one of the following ConfigMaps, or update an existing one, in each
cluster that will be calling services in remote clusters
(every cluster in the general case):

For clusters that use `kube-dns`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kube-dns
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  stubDomains: |
    {"global": ["$(kubectl get svc -n istio-system istiocoredns -o jsonpath={.spec.clusterIP})"]}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

For clusters that use CoreDNS:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: coredns
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  Corefile: |
    .:53 {
        errors
        health
        kubernetes cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {
           pods insecure
           upstream
           fallthrough in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa
        }
        prometheus :9153
        proxy . /etc/resolv.conf
        cache 30
        loop
        reload
        loadbalance
    }
    global:53 {
        errors
        cache 30
        proxy . $(kubectl get svc -n istio-system istiocoredns -o jsonpath={.spec.clusterIP})
    }
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Configure application services

Every service in a given cluster that needs to be accessed from a different remote
cluster requires a `ServiceEntry` configuration in the remote cluster.
The host used in the service entry should be of the form `<name>.<namespace>.global`
where name and namespace correspond to the service's name and namespace respectively.

To confirm that your multicluster configuration is working, we suggest you proceed to our
simple [multicluster using gateways](/docs/examples/multicluster/gateways/)
example to test your setup.

## Uninstalling

Uninstall Istio by running the following commands on **every cluster**:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete -f $HOME/istio.yaml
$ kubectl delete ns istio-system
{{< /text >}}

## Summary

Using Istio gateways, a common root CA, and service entries, you can configure
a single Istio service mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
Once configured this way, traffic can be transparently routed to remote clusters
without any application involvement.
Although this approach requires a certain amount of manual configuration for
remote service access, the service entry creation process could be automated.

Commit message:

Implement consistent term for installation related flows (#3577)
* Implement consitent term for installation related flows

Replaced "paths", "instructions", and other similar terms
with the term "flow" to ensure readers from different
Geos are not confused by multiple meanings or idiomatic use.

Signed-off-by: Rigs Caballero <grca@google.com>

* Implement consistent term for installation related flows

Replaced "paths", "instructions", and other similar terms
with the term "flow" to ensure readers from different
Geos are not confused by multiple meanings or idiomatic use.

Signed-off-by: Rigs Caballero <grca@google.com>

* Fix typos and lint issue.

Signed-off-by: Rigs Caballero <grca@google.com>

content/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/multicluster/gateways/index.md, after:

---
title: Gateway Connectivity
description: Install an Istio mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods.
weight: 2
aliases:
    - /docs/setup/kubernetes/multicluster-install/gateways/
keywords: [kubernetes,multicluster,federation,gateway]
---

Follow this flow to install an Istio [multicluster service mesh](/docs/concepts/multicluster-deployments/)
where the Kubernetes cluster services and the applications in each cluster
are limited to remote communication using gateway IPs.

Instead of using a central Istio control plane to manage the mesh,
in this configuration each cluster has an **identical** Istio control plane
installation, each managing its own endpoints.
All of the clusters are under a shared administrative control for the purposes of
policy enforcement and security.

A single Istio service mesh across the clusters is achieved by replicating
shared services and namespaces and using a common root CA in all of the clusters.
Cross-cluster communication occurs over Istio Gateways of the respective clusters.

{{< image width="80%" link="./multicluster-with-gateways.svg" caption="Istio mesh spanning multiple Kubernetes clusters using Istio Gateway to reach remote pods" >}}

## Prerequisites

* Two or more Kubernetes clusters with **1.10 or newer**.

* Authority to deploy the [Istio control plane using Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/)
on **each** Kubernetes cluster.

* The IP address of the `istio-ingressgateway` service in each cluster must
  be accessible from every other cluster.

* A **Root CA**. Cross cluster communication requires mutual TLS connection
  between services. To enable mutual TLS communication across clusters, each
  cluster's Citadel will be configured with intermediate CA credentials
  generated by a shared root CA. For illustration purposes, we use a
  sample root CA certificate available in the Istio installation
  under the `samples/certs` directory.

## Deploy the Istio control plane in each cluster

1. Generate intermediate CA certificates for each cluster's Citadel from your
    organization's root CA. The shared root CA enables mutual TLS communication
    across different clusters.

    {{< tip >}}
    For illustration purposes, the following instructions use the certificates
    from the Istio samples directory for both clusters. In real world deployments,
    you would likely use a different CA certificate for each cluster, all signed
    by a common root CA.
    {{< /tip >}}

1. Generate a multicluster-gateways Istio configuration file using `helm`:

    {{< warning >}}
    If you're not sure if your `helm` dependencies are up to date, update them using the
    command shown in [Helm installation steps](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#installation-steps)
    before running the following command.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
        -f @install/kubernetes/helm/istio/example-values/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml@ > $HOME/istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

    For further details and customization options, refer to the
    [Installation with Helm](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/) instructions.

1. Run the following commands in **every cluster** to deploy an identical Istio control plane
   configuration in all of them.

    * Create a Kubernetes secret for your generated CA certificates using a command similar to the following. See [Certificate Authority (CA) certificates](/docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert/#plugging-in-the-existing-certificate-and-key) for more details.

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl create namespace istio-system
        $ kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/ca-cert.pem@ \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/ca-key.pem@ \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/root-cert.pem@ \
            --from-file=@samples/certs/cert-chain.pem@
        {{< /text >}}

    * Follow the [Helm Installation Steps](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/helm/#installation-steps) to install Istio. You must pass in the flag `--values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml` to helm to use the correct multicluster settings. For example, using the Helm Install option:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ helm install istio --name istio --namespace istio-system --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-multicluster-gateways.yaml
        {{< /text >}}

## Setup DNS

Providing DNS resolution for services in remote clusters will allow
existing applications to function unmodified, as applications typically
expect to resolve services by their DNS names and access the resulting
IP. Istio itself does not use the DNS for routing requests between
services. Services local to a cluster share a common DNS suffix
(e.g., `svc.cluster.local`). Kubernetes DNS provides DNS resolution for these
services.

To provide a similar setup for services from remote clusters, we name
services from remote clusters in the format
`<name>.<namespace>.global`. Istio also ships with a CoreDNS server that
will provide DNS resolution for these services. In order to utilize this
DNS, Kubernetes' DNS needs to be configured to point to CoreDNS as the DNS
server for the `.global` DNS domain.

Create one of the following ConfigMaps, or update an existing one, in each
cluster that will be calling services in remote clusters
(every cluster in the general case):

For clusters that use `kube-dns`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kube-dns
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  stubDomains: |
    {"global": ["$(kubectl get svc -n istio-system istiocoredns -o jsonpath={.spec.clusterIP})"]}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

For clusters that use CoreDNS:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: coredns
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  Corefile: |
    .:53 {
        errors
        health
        kubernetes cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {
           pods insecure
           upstream
           fallthrough in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa
        }
        prometheus :9153
        proxy . /etc/resolv.conf
        cache 30
        loop
        reload
        loadbalance
    }
    global:53 {
        errors
        cache 30
        proxy . $(kubectl get svc -n istio-system istiocoredns -o jsonpath={.spec.clusterIP})
    }
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Configure application services

Every service in a given cluster that needs to be accessed from a different remote
cluster requires a `ServiceEntry` configuration in the remote cluster.
The host used in the service entry should be of the form `<name>.<namespace>.global`
where name and namespace correspond to the service's name and namespace respectively.

To confirm that your multicluster configuration is working, we suggest you proceed to our
simple [multicluster using gateways](/docs/examples/multicluster/gateways/)
example to test your setup.

## Uninstalling

Uninstall Istio by running the following commands on **every cluster**:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete -f $HOME/istio.yaml
$ kubectl delete ns istio-system
{{< /text >}}

## Summary

Using Istio gateways, a common root CA, and service entries, you can configure
a single Istio service mesh across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
Once configured this way, traffic can be transparently routed to remote clusters
without any application involvement.
Although this approach requires a certain amount of manual configuration for
remote service access, the service entry creation process could be automated.
