content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/package-service/index.md, before:

---
title: Run ratings in Docker
overview: Run a single microservice in a Docker container.

weight: 20

---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

This module shows how you create a [Docker](https://www.docker.com) image and run it locally.

1.  Download the [`Dockerfile`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) for the `ratings` microservice.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/ratings/Dockerfile -o Dockerfile
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Observe the `Dockerfile`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat Dockerfile
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that it copies the files
    into the container's filesystem and then runs the `npm install` command you ran in the previous module.
    The `CMD` command instructs Docker to run the `ratings` service on port `9080`.

1.  Build a Docker image from the `Dockerfile`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker build -t $USER/ratings .
    ...
    Step 9/9 : CMD node /opt/microservices/ratings.js 9080
    ---> Using cache
    ---> 77c6a304476c
    Successfully built 77c6a304476c
    Successfully tagged user/ratings:latest
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Run ratings in Docker. The following [docker run](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/) command
    instructs Docker to expose port `9080` of the container to port `9081` of your computer, allowing you to access the
    `ratings` microservice on port `9081`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker run -d -p 9081:9080 $USER/ratings
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access [http://localhost:9081/ratings/7](http://localhost:9081/ratings/7) in your browser or use the following `curl` command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl localhost:9081/ratings/7
    {"id":7,"ratings":{"Reviewer1":5,"Reviewer2":4}}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Observe the running container. Run the [docker ps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/ps/) command
    to list all the running containers and notice the container with the image `<your user name>/ratings`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker ps
    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE            COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
    47e8c1fe6eca        user/ratings     "docker-entrypoint.s…"   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        0.0.0.0:9081->9080/tcp   elated_stonebraker
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Stop the running container:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker stop <the container ID from the output of docker ps>
    {{< /text >}}

You are ready to [deploy the application](/docs/examples/microservices-istio/bookinfo-kubernetes).

Commit message:

Tutorial fixes: single microservice, docker, Kubernetes (#6171)
* remove "on the code" from "note the following elements"

* move "from a different terminal session" to the previous curl command

use terminal window instead of terminal session, since window is more clear

* rewrite the last sentence of the "Run raitings in Docker" module

* rewrite the sentence about the final version in the Bookinfo example

* remove setting NAMESPACE and KUBECONFIG since they were set in "setup local computer"

* environmental variable -> environment variable

see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable

* the Bookinfo example page -> the Bookinfo example

* in the page -> on the page

* remove "on the tutorial namespace"

all the operations are performed on the tutorial namespace anyway

* remove "Such clients are known as mesh-external clients"

there is no mesh introduced yet, and this sentence does add much information

* use kubectl patch instead of editing yaml

for GKE, to change productpage's type to LoadBalancer

* sudo is required to edit /etc/hosts, not to run the echo command

* add /static to Kubernetes Ingress Gateway

content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/package-service/index.md, after:

---
title: Run ratings in Docker
overview: Run a single microservice in a Docker container.

weight: 20

---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

This module shows how you create a [Docker](https://www.docker.com) image and run it locally.

1.  Download the [`Dockerfile`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) for the `ratings` microservice.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/ratings/Dockerfile -o Dockerfile
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Observe the `Dockerfile`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat Dockerfile
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that it copies the files
    into the container's filesystem and then runs the `npm install` command you ran in the previous module.
    The `CMD` command instructs Docker to run the `ratings` service on port `9080`.

1.  Build a Docker image from the `Dockerfile`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker build -t $USER/ratings .
    ...
    Step 9/9 : CMD node /opt/microservices/ratings.js 9080
    ---> Using cache
    ---> 77c6a304476c
    Successfully built 77c6a304476c
    Successfully tagged user/ratings:latest
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Run ratings in Docker. The following [docker run](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/) command
    instructs Docker to expose port `9080` of the container to port `9081` of your computer, allowing you to access the
    `ratings` microservice on port `9081`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker run -d -p 9081:9080 $USER/ratings
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access [http://localhost:9081/ratings/7](http://localhost:9081/ratings/7) in your browser or use the following `curl` command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl localhost:9081/ratings/7
    {"id":7,"ratings":{"Reviewer1":5,"Reviewer2":4}}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Observe the running container. Run the [docker ps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/ps/) command
    to list all the running containers and notice the container with the image `<your user name>/ratings`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker ps
    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE            COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
    47e8c1fe6eca        user/ratings     "docker-entrypoint.s…"   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        0.0.0.0:9081->9080/tcp   elated_stonebraker
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Stop the running container:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker stop <the container ID from the output of docker ps>
    {{< /text >}}

You have learned how to package a single service into a container. The next step is to learn how to [deploy the whole application to a Kubernetes cluster](/docs/examples/microservices-istio/bookinfo-kubernetes).
