troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting Guide
overview: Practical advice on practical problems with Istio
layout: troubleshooting
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

# Troubleshooting Guide

Oh no! You're having trouble? Below is a list of solutions to common problems.

> <img src="{{home}}/img/bulb.png" alt="Bulb" title="Help" style="width: 32px; display:inline" />
If you don't find what you need here, be sure to check out our [help page]({{home}}/help).

## No traces appearing in Zipkin when running Istio locally on Mac
Istio is installed and everything seems to be working except there are no traces showing up in Zipkin when there
should be.

This may be caused by a known [Docker issue](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/1260) where the time inside
containers may skew significantly from the time on the host machine. If this is the case,
when you select a very long date range in Zipkin you will see the traces appearing as much as several days too early.

You can also confirm this problem by comparing the date inside a docker container to outside:

```bash
docker run --entrypoint date gcr.io/istio-testing/ubuntu-16-04-slave:latest
Sun Jun 11 11:44:18 UTC 2017
date -u
Thu Jun 15 02:25:42 UTC 2017
```

To fix the problem, you'll need to shutdown and then restart Docker before reinstalling Istio.

## Envoy won't connect to my HTTP/1.0 service

Envoy requires HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 traffic for upstream services. For example, when using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) for serving traffic behind Envoy, you will need to set the [proxy_http_version](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_http_version) directive in your NGINX config to be "1.1", since the NGINX default is 1.0

Example config:

```
upstream http_backend {
    server 127.0.0.1:8080;

    keepalive 16;
}

server {
    ...

    location /http/ {
        proxy_pass http://http_backend;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Connection "";
        ...
    }
}
```

## Where are the metrics for my service?

The expected flow of metrics is:

1. Envoy reports attributes to Mixer in batch (asynchronously from requests)
1. Mixer translates the attributes from Mixer into instances based on 
   operator-provided configuration.
1. The instances are handed to Mixer adapters for processing and backend storage.
1. The backend storage systems record metrics data.

The default installations of Mixer ship with a [Prometheus](http://prometheus.io/)
adapter, as well as configuration for generating a basic set of metric
values and sending them to the Prometheus adapter. The
[Prometheus add-on]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html#about-the-prometheus-add-on)
also supplies configuration for an instance of Prometheus to scrape
Mixer for metrics.

If you do not see the expected metrics in the Istio Dashboard and/or via
Prometheus queries, there may be an issue at any of the steps in the flow
listed above. Below is a set of instructions to troubleshoot each of
those steps.

### Verify Mixer is receiving Report calls

Mixer generates metrics for monitoring the behavior of Mixer itself.
Check these metrics.

1. Establish a connection to the Mixer self-monitoring endpoint.
   
   In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward <mixer pod> 9093 &
   ```

1. Verify successful report calls.

   On the [Mixer self-monitoring endpoint](http://localhost:9093/metrics), 
   search for `grpc_server_handled_total`.
   
   You should see something like:

   ```
   grpc_server_handled_total{grpc_code="OK",grpc_method="Report",grpc_service="istio.mixer.v1.Mixer",grpc_type="unary"} 68
   ```

If you do not see any data for `grpc_server_handled_total` with a
`grpc_method="Report"`, then Mixer is not being called by Envoy to report
telemetry. In this case, ensure that the services have been properly
integrated into the mesh (either by via
[automatic]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection.html#automatic-sidecar-injection)
or [manual]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection.html#manual-sidecar-injection) sidecar injection).

### Verify Mixer metrics configuration exists

1. Verify Mixer rules exist.

   In Kubernetes environments, issue the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl get rules --all-namespaces
   ```

   With the default configuration, you should see something like:

   ```
   NAMESPACE      NAME        KIND
   istio-system   promhttp    rule.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   promtcp     rule.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stdio       rule.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   ```

   If you do not see anything named `promhttp` or `promtcp`, then there is
   no Mixer configuration for sending metric instances to a Prometheus adapter.
   You will need to supply configuration for rules that connect Mixer metric
   instances to a Prometheus handler
   ([example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/install/kubernetes/istio.yaml#L892)).

1. Verify Prometheus handler config exists.

   In Kubernetes environments, issue the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl get prometheuses.config.istio.io --all-namespaces
   ```

   The expected output is:

   ```
   NAMESPACE      NAME           KIND
   istio-system   handler        prometheus.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   ```

   If there are no prometheus handlers configured, you will need to reconfigure
   Mixer with the appropriate handler configuration
   ([example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/install/kubernetes/istio.yaml#L819))

1. Verify Mixer metric instances config exists.

   In Kubernetes environments, issue the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl get metrics.config.istio.io --all-namespaces
   ```

   The expected output is:

   ```
   NAMESPACE      NAME                         KIND
   istio-system   requestcount                 metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   requestduration              metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   requestsize                  metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   responsesize                 metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverrequestcount      metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverrequestduration   metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverrequestsize       metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverresponsesize      metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   tcpbytereceived              metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   tcpbytesent                  metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   ```

   If there are no metric instances configured, you will need to reconfigure
   Mixer with the appropriate instance configuration
   ([example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/install/kubernetes/istio.yaml#L727))

1. Verify Mixer configuration resolution is working for your service.

   1. Establish a connection to the Mixer self-monitoring endpoint.
   
      Setup a `port-forward` to the Mixer self-monitoring port as described in
      [Verify Mixer is receiving Report calls](#verify-mixer-is-receiving-report-calls).

   1. On the [Mixer self-monitoring port](http://localhost:9093/metrics), search
      for `mixer_config_resolve_count`.
      
      You should find something like:

      ```
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="details.default.svc.cluster.local"} 56
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local"} 67
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="mongodb.default.svc.cluster.local"} 18
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"} 59
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="ratings.default.svc.cluster.local"} 26
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="reviews.default.svc.cluster.local"} 54
      ```

   1. Validate that there are values for `mixer_config_resolve_count` where
      `target="<your service>"` and `error="false"`.

      If there are only instances where `error="true"` where `target=<your service>`,
      there is likely an issue with Mixer configuration for your service. Logs 
      information is needed to further debug.

      In Kubernetes environments, retrieve the Mixer logs via:

      ```bash
      kubectl -n istio-system logs <mixer pod> mixer
      ```

      Look for errors related to your configuration or your service in the
      returned logs.

More on viewing Mixer configuration can be found [here]({{home}}/docs/welcome/faq#mixer-self-monitoring)

### Verify Mixer is sending metric instances to the Prometheus adapter

1. Establish a connection to the Mixer self-monitoring endpoint.
   
   Setup a `port-forward` to the Mixer self-monitoring port as described in
   [Verify Mixer is receiving Report calls](#verify-mixer-is-receiving-report-calls).

1. On the [Mixer self-monitoring port](http://localhost:9093/metrics), search 
   for `mixer_adapter_dispatch_count`.
   
   You should find something like:

   ```
   mixer_adapter_dispatch_count{adapter="prometheus",error="false",handler="handler.prometheus.istio-system",meshFunction="metric",response_code="OK"} 114
   mixer_adapter_dispatch_count{adapter="prometheus",error="true",handler="handler.prometheus.default",meshFunction="metric",response_code="INTERNAL"} 4
   mixer_adapter_dispatch_count{adapter="stdio",error="false",handler="handler.stdio.istio-system",meshFunction="logentry",response_code="OK"} 104
   ```

1. Validate that there are values for `mixer_adapter_dispatch_count` where 
   `adapter="prometheus"` and `error="false"`.

   If there are are no recorded dispatches to the Prometheus adapter, there
   is likely a configuration issue. Please see
   [Verify Mixer metrics configuration exists](#verify-mixer-metrics-configuration-exists).

   If dispatches to the Prometheus adapter are reporting errors, check the
   Mixer logs to determine the source of the error. Most likely, there is a
   configuration issue for the handler listed in `mixer_adapter_dispatch_count`.

   In Kubernetes environment, check the Mixer logs via:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system logs <mixer pod> mixer
   ```

   Filter for lines including something like `Report 0 returned with: INTERNAL 
   (1 error occurred:` (with some surrounding context) to find more information 
   regarding Report dispatch failures.

### Verify Prometheus configuration

1. Connect to the Prometheus UI and verify that it can successfully
   scrape Mixer.

   In Kubernetes environments, setup port-forwarding as follows:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
   ```

1. Visit [http://localhost:9090/config](http://localhost:9090/config).

   Confirm that an entry exists that looks like:

   ```yaml
   - job_name: 'istio-mesh'
     # Override the global default and scrape targets from this job every 5 seconds.
     scrape_interval: 5s
     # metrics_path defaults to '/metrics'
     # scheme defaults to 'http'.
     static_configs:
     - targets: ['istio-mixer.istio-system:42422']
   ```

1. Visit [http://localhost:9090/targets](http://localhost:9090/targets).

   Confirm that target `istio-mesh` has a status of **UP**.

## How can I debug issues with the service mesh?

### With [GDB](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/)

To debug Istio with `gdb`, you will need to run the debug images of Envoy / Mixer / Pilot. A recent `gdb` and the golang extensions (for Mixer/Pilot or other golang components) is required.

1.  `kubectl exec -it PODNAME -c [proxy | mixer | pilot]`
1.  Find process ID: ps ax
1.  gdb -p PID binary
1.  For go: info goroutines, goroutine x bt

### With [Tcpdump](http://www.tcpdump.org/tcpdump_man.html)

Tcpdump doesn't work in the sidecar pod - the container doesn't run as root. However any other container in the same pod will see all the packets, since the network namespace is shared. `iptables` will also see the pod-wide config.

Communication between Envoy and the app happens on 127.0.0.1, and is not encrypted.

## Envoy is crashing under load

Check your `ulimit -a`. Many systems have a 1024 open file descriptor limit by default which will cause Envoy to assert and crash with:

```bash
[2017-05-17 03:00:52.735][14236][critical][assert] assert failure: fd_ != -1: external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:58
```

Make sure to raise your ulimit. Example: `ulimit -n 16384`

Commit message:

Add information about grafana not displaying metrics (#795)
If the server time is behind the client time at minimum 6 minutes,
the Grafana dashboard will not display metrics to the web client (e.g. Chrome).

This is clearly some type of bug - the time of the client should have
zero bearing on the metrics displayed by the server.  Note the metrics
are recorded.  I am unclear if the metric timestamps are recorded correctly
in the server.

See: https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/1954 for more details.

troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting Guide
overview: Practical advice on practical problems with Istio
layout: troubleshooting
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

# Troubleshooting Guide

Oh no! You're having trouble? Below is a list of solutions to common problems.

> <img src="{{home}}/img/bulb.png" alt="Bulb" title="Help" style="width: 32px; display:inline" />
If you don't find what you need here, be sure to check out our [help page]({{home}}/help).

## No traces appearing in Zipkin when running Istio locally on Mac
Istio is installed and everything seems to be working except there are no traces showing up in Zipkin when there
should be.

This may be caused by a known [Docker issue](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/1260) where the time inside
containers may skew significantly from the time on the host machine. If this is the case,
when you select a very long date range in Zipkin you will see the traces appearing as much as several days too early.

You can also confirm this problem by comparing the date inside a docker container to outside:

```bash
docker run --entrypoint date gcr.io/istio-testing/ubuntu-16-04-slave:latest
Sun Jun 11 11:44:18 UTC 2017
date -u
Thu Jun 15 02:25:42 UTC 2017
```

To fix the problem, you'll need to shutdown and then restart Docker before reinstalling Istio.

## Envoy won't connect to my HTTP/1.0 service

Envoy requires HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 traffic for upstream services. For example, when using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) for serving traffic behind Envoy, you will need to set the [proxy_http_version](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_http_version) directive in your NGINX config to be "1.1", since the NGINX default is 1.0

Example config:

```
upstream http_backend {
    server 127.0.0.1:8080;

    keepalive 16;
}

server {
    ...

    location /http/ {
        proxy_pass http://http_backend;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Connection "";
        ...
    }
}
```

## No grafana output when connecting from a local web client to Istio remotely hosted

Validate the client and server date and time match.

The time of the web client (e.g. Chrome) affects the output from Grafana. A simple solution
to this problem is to verify a time synchronization service is running correctly within the
Kubernetes cluster and the web client machine also is correctly using a time synchronization
service. Some common time synchronization systems are NTP and Chrony. This is especially
problematic is engineering labs with firewalls. In these scenarios, NTP may not be configured
properly to point at the lab-based NTP services.

## Where are the metrics for my service?

The expected flow of metrics is:

1. Envoy reports attributes to Mixer in batch (asynchronously from requests)
1. Mixer translates the attributes from Mixer into instances based on 
   operator-provided configuration.
1. The instances are handed to Mixer adapters for processing and backend storage.
1. The backend storage systems record metrics data.

The default installations of Mixer ship with a [Prometheus](http://prometheus.io/)
adapter, as well as configuration for generating a basic set of metric
values and sending them to the Prometheus adapter. The
[Prometheus add-on]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html#about-the-prometheus-add-on)
also supplies configuration for an instance of Prometheus to scrape
Mixer for metrics.

If you do not see the expected metrics in the Istio Dashboard and/or via
Prometheus queries, there may be an issue at any of the steps in the flow
listed above. Below is a set of instructions to troubleshoot each of
those steps.

### Verify Mixer is receiving Report calls

Mixer generates metrics for monitoring the behavior of Mixer itself.
Check these metrics.

1. Establish a connection to the Mixer self-monitoring endpoint.
   
   In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward <mixer pod> 9093 &
   ```

1. Verify successful report calls.

   On the [Mixer self-monitoring endpoint](http://localhost:9093/metrics), 
   search for `grpc_server_handled_total`.
   
   You should see something like:

   ```
   grpc_server_handled_total{grpc_code="OK",grpc_method="Report",grpc_service="istio.mixer.v1.Mixer",grpc_type="unary"} 68
   ```

If you do not see any data for `grpc_server_handled_total` with a
`grpc_method="Report"`, then Mixer is not being called by Envoy to report
telemetry. In this case, ensure that the services have been properly
integrated into the mesh (either by via
[automatic]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection.html#automatic-sidecar-injection)
or [manual]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection.html#manual-sidecar-injection) sidecar injection).

### Verify Mixer metrics configuration exists

1. Verify Mixer rules exist.

   In Kubernetes environments, issue the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl get rules --all-namespaces
   ```

   With the default configuration, you should see something like:

   ```
   NAMESPACE      NAME        KIND
   istio-system   promhttp    rule.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   promtcp     rule.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stdio       rule.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   ```

   If you do not see anything named `promhttp` or `promtcp`, then there is
   no Mixer configuration for sending metric instances to a Prometheus adapter.
   You will need to supply configuration for rules that connect Mixer metric
   instances to a Prometheus handler
   ([example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/install/kubernetes/istio.yaml#L892)).

1. Verify Prometheus handler config exists.

   In Kubernetes environments, issue the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl get prometheuses.config.istio.io --all-namespaces
   ```

   The expected output is:

   ```
   NAMESPACE      NAME           KIND
   istio-system   handler        prometheus.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   ```

   If there are no prometheus handlers configured, you will need to reconfigure
   Mixer with the appropriate handler configuration
   ([example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/install/kubernetes/istio.yaml#L819))

1. Verify Mixer metric instances config exists.

   In Kubernetes environments, issue the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl get metrics.config.istio.io --all-namespaces
   ```

   The expected output is:

   ```
   NAMESPACE      NAME                         KIND
   istio-system   requestcount                 metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   requestduration              metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   requestsize                  metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   responsesize                 metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverrequestcount      metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverrequestduration   metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverrequestsize       metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   stackdriverresponsesize      metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   tcpbytereceived              metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   istio-system   tcpbytesent                  metric.v1alpha2.config.istio.io
   ```

   If there are no metric instances configured, you will need to reconfigure
   Mixer with the appropriate instance configuration
   ([example](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/install/kubernetes/istio.yaml#L727))

1. Verify Mixer configuration resolution is working for your service.

   1. Establish a connection to the Mixer self-monitoring endpoint.
   
      Setup a `port-forward` to the Mixer self-monitoring port as described in
      [Verify Mixer is receiving Report calls](#verify-mixer-is-receiving-report-calls).

   1. On the [Mixer self-monitoring port](http://localhost:9093/metrics), search
      for `mixer_config_resolve_count`.
      
      You should find something like:

      ```
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="details.default.svc.cluster.local"} 56
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local"} 67
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="mongodb.default.svc.cluster.local"} 18
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"} 59
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="ratings.default.svc.cluster.local"} 26
      mixer_config_resolve_count{error="false",target="reviews.default.svc.cluster.local"} 54
      ```

   1. Validate that there are values for `mixer_config_resolve_count` where
      `target="<your service>"` and `error="false"`.

      If there are only instances where `error="true"` where `target=<your service>`,
      there is likely an issue with Mixer configuration for your service. Logs 
      information is needed to further debug.

      In Kubernetes environments, retrieve the Mixer logs via:

      ```bash
      kubectl -n istio-system logs <mixer pod> mixer
      ```

      Look for errors related to your configuration or your service in the
      returned logs.

More on viewing Mixer configuration can be found [here]({{home}}/docs/welcome/faq#mixer-self-monitoring)

### Verify Mixer is sending metric instances to the Prometheus adapter

1. Establish a connection to the Mixer self-monitoring endpoint.
   
   Setup a `port-forward` to the Mixer self-monitoring port as described in
   [Verify Mixer is receiving Report calls](#verify-mixer-is-receiving-report-calls).

1. On the [Mixer self-monitoring port](http://localhost:9093/metrics), search 
   for `mixer_adapter_dispatch_count`.
   
   You should find something like:

   ```
   mixer_adapter_dispatch_count{adapter="prometheus",error="false",handler="handler.prometheus.istio-system",meshFunction="metric",response_code="OK"} 114
   mixer_adapter_dispatch_count{adapter="prometheus",error="true",handler="handler.prometheus.default",meshFunction="metric",response_code="INTERNAL"} 4
   mixer_adapter_dispatch_count{adapter="stdio",error="false",handler="handler.stdio.istio-system",meshFunction="logentry",response_code="OK"} 104
   ```

1. Validate that there are values for `mixer_adapter_dispatch_count` where 
   `adapter="prometheus"` and `error="false"`.

   If there are are no recorded dispatches to the Prometheus adapter, there
   is likely a configuration issue. Please see
   [Verify Mixer metrics configuration exists](#verify-mixer-metrics-configuration-exists).

   If dispatches to the Prometheus adapter are reporting errors, check the
   Mixer logs to determine the source of the error. Most likely, there is a
   configuration issue for the handler listed in `mixer_adapter_dispatch_count`.

   In Kubernetes environment, check the Mixer logs via:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system logs <mixer pod> mixer
   ```

   Filter for lines including something like `Report 0 returned with: INTERNAL 
   (1 error occurred:` (with some surrounding context) to find more information 
   regarding Report dispatch failures.

### Verify Prometheus configuration

1. Connect to the Prometheus UI and verify that it can successfully
   scrape Mixer.

   In Kubernetes environments, setup port-forwarding as follows:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
   ```

1. Visit [http://localhost:9090/config](http://localhost:9090/config).

   Confirm that an entry exists that looks like:

   ```yaml
   - job_name: 'istio-mesh'
     # Override the global default and scrape targets from this job every 5 seconds.
     scrape_interval: 5s
     # metrics_path defaults to '/metrics'
     # scheme defaults to 'http'.
     static_configs:
     - targets: ['istio-mixer.istio-system:42422']
   ```

1. Visit [http://localhost:9090/targets](http://localhost:9090/targets).

   Confirm that target `istio-mesh` has a status of **UP**.

## How can I debug issues with the service mesh?

### With [GDB](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/)

To debug Istio with `gdb`, you will need to run the debug images of Envoy / Mixer / Pilot. A recent `gdb` and the golang extensions (for Mixer/Pilot or other golang components) is required.

1.  `kubectl exec -it PODNAME -c [proxy | mixer | pilot]`
1.  Find process ID: ps ax
1.  gdb -p PID binary
1.  For go: info goroutines, goroutine x bt

### With [Tcpdump](http://www.tcpdump.org/tcpdump_man.html)

Tcpdump doesn't work in the sidecar pod - the container doesn't run as root. However any other container in the same pod will see all the packets, since the network namespace is shared. `iptables` will also see the pod-wide config.

Communication between Envoy and the app happens on 127.0.0.1, and is not encrypted.

## Envoy is crashing under load

Check your `ulimit -a`. Many systems have a 1024 open file descriptor limit by default which will cause Envoy to assert and crash with:

```bash
[2017-05-17 03:00:52.735][14236][critical][assert] assert failure: fd_ != -1: external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:58
```

Make sure to raise your ulimit. Example: `ulimit -n 16384`
