_docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.md, before:

---
title: Quick Start
overview: Quick Start instructions to setup the Istio service mesh in a Kubernetes cluster.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
---

{% include home.html %}

Quick Start instructions to install and configure Istio in a Kubernetes cluster.


## Prerequisites

The following instructions assume you have access to a Kubernetes **1.7.4 or newer** cluster
with [RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/) enabled.
If you wish to enable [transparent injection of sidecar]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/automatic-sidecar-inject.html), you need to turn on Kubernetes alpha features in your cluster.

  > Note: If you installed Istio 0.1.x,
  > [uninstall](https://istio.io/v-0.1/docs/tasks/installing-istio.html#uninstalling)
  > it completely before installing the newer version (including the Istio sidecar
  > for all Istio enabled application pods).

* Depending on your Kubernetes provider:
  * To install Istio locally, install the latest version of
    [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/minikube/) (version 0.22.1 or later).

  * If you are using [Google Container Engine](https://cloud.google.com/container-engine),
    retrieve your credentials for kubectl:

    ```bash
    gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> --zone <zone> --project <project-name>
    ```
    Replace `<cluster-name>` with the name of the cluster you want to use and `<zone>`
    with the zone that cluster is in.

  * If you are using [IBM Bluemix Container Service](https://www.ibm.com/cloud-computing/bluemix/containers), retrieve your
    credentials for kubectl:

    ```bash
    $(bx cs cluster-config <cluster-name>|grep "export KUBECONFIG")
    ```
    where `<cluster-name>` is the name of the cluster you want to use.

  * If you are using [Openshift Origin](https://www.openshift.org) version 3.7 or later,
    Openshift by default does not allow containers running with UID 0. Enable containers running
    with UID 0 for Istio's service accounts for ingress and egress:

    ```bash
    oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z istio-ingress-service-account -n istio-system
    oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z istio-egress-service-account -n istio-system
    ```  

* Install or upgrade the Kubernetes CLI
  [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) to
  match the version supported by your cluster (version 1.7 or later for CRD
  support).

## Installation steps

Starting with the {{ site.data.istio.version }} release, Istio is installed in its own `istio-system`
 namespace, and can manage micro-services from all other namespaces.

 1. Go to the [Istio release](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases) page to download the
    installation file corresponding to your OS. If you are using a MacOS or Linux system, you can also
    run the following command to download and extract the latest release automatically:
    ```bash
    curl -L https://git.io/getLatestIstio | sh -
    ```

1. Extract the installation file and change the directory to the file location. The
   installation directory contains:
    * Installation `.yaml` files for Kubernetes in `install/`
    * Sample applications in `samples/`
    * The `istioctl` client binary in the `bin/` directory. `istioctl` is used when manually injecting Envoy as a sidecar proxy and for creating routing rules and policies.
    * The `istio.VERSION` configuration file

1. Add the `istioctl` client to your PATH.
   For example, run the following command on a MacOS or Linux system:

   ```bash
   export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
   ```

1. Install Istio's core components. Choose one of the two _**mutually exclusive**_ options below:

    a. Install Istio without enabling [authentication]({{home}}/docs/concepts/network-and-auth/auth.html) between sidecars with
       [mutual TLS authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication).
       Choose this option for clusters with existing applications, applications where services with an
       Istio sidecar need to be able to communicate with other non-Istio Kubernetes services, and
       applications that use [liveliness and readiness probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/), headless services, or statefulsets.

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio.yaml
      ```

    _**OR**_

    b. Install Istio and enable [authentication]({{home}}/docs/concepts/network-and-auth/auth.html) between sidecars with [mutual TLS authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication):

     ```bash
     kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-auth.yaml
     ```

   Both options create the `istio-system` namespace along with the required RBAC permissions,
   and deploy Istio-Pilot, Istio-Mixer, Istio-Ingress, Istio-Egress, and Istio-CA (Certificate Authority).

1. *Optional:* If your cluster has Kubernetes alpha features enabled, and you wish to enable a
   [transparent injection of sidecar]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/automatic-sidecar-inject.html), install the Istio-Initializer:

    ```bash
     kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-initializer.yaml
     ```

1. *Optional:* Install add-ons for metric collection and/or request tracing as described in the following sections.

### Enabling metrics collection

To collect and view metrics provided by Mixer, install [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io)
as well as the [Grafana](https://grafana.com/grafana/download) and/or ServiceGraph add-ons.

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/grafana.yaml
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/servicegraph.yaml
```
You can find out more about how to use these tools in [Collecting Metrics and Logs]({{home}}/docs/tasks/metrics-logs.html).

#### Verifying the Grafana dashboard

The Grafana add-on provides an Istio dashboard visualization of the metrics in the cluster
such as request rates and success or failure rates. After you install Grafana, check that you can
 access the dashboard.

Configure port-forwarding for the `grafana` service:

  ```bash
  kubectl port-forward -n istio-system $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=grafana -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 3000:3000 &
  ```

Point your web browser to [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-dashboard).
The dashboard looks similar to the following:

<figure><img style="max-width:80%" src="./img/grafana_dashboard.png" alt="Grafana Istio Dashboard" title="Grafana Istio Dashboard" />
<figcaption>Grafana Istio Dashboard</figcaption></figure>

#### Verifying the ServiceGraph service

The ServiceGraph add-on provides a textual (JSON) representation and a graphical visualization of the
service interaction graph for the cluster. Like Grafana, you can access the servicegraph service using
port-forwarding, service nodePort, or, if external load balancing is available, external IP. In this
example the service name is `servicegraph` and the port to access is `8088`:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n istio-system $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=servicegraph -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 8088:8088 &
```

The ServiceGraph service provides both a textual (JSON) representation (via `/graph`) and a graphical
visualization (via `/dotviz`) of the underlying service graph. If you configured port forwarding using
the above command, you can view the graphical visualization by opening your browser at [http://localhost:8088/dotviz](http://localhost:8088/dotviz).  You will see an empty page initially before you have any microservices deployed.

After you run some services, a service graph builds. For example, after installing the
[BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application and generating some load on the
application (e.g., executing `curl` requests in a `while` loop), the resulting service graph looks
similar to the following:

<figure><img src="./img/servicegraph.png" alt="BookInfo Service Graph" title="BookInfo Service Graph" />
<figcaption>BookInfo Service Graph</figcaption></figure>


## Verifying the installation

1. Ensure the following Kubernetes services are deployed: `istio-pilot`, `istio-mixer`,
   `istio-ingress`, `istio-egress`, and, optionally, `grafana`, `prometheus` and `servicegraph`.

   ```bash
   kubectl get svc -n istio-system
   ```
   ```bash
   NAME            CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)                       AGE
   grafana         10.83.252.16    <none>            3000:30432/TCP                5h
   istio-egress    10.83.247.89    <none>            80/TCP                        5h
   istio-ingress   10.83.245.171   35.184.245.62     80:32730/TCP,443:30574/TCP    5h
   istio-pilot     10.83.251.173   <none>            8080/TCP,8081/TCP             5h
   istio-mixer     10.83.244.253   <none>            9091/TCP,9094/TCP,42422/TCP   5h
   prometheus      10.83.247.221   <none>            9090:30398/TCP                5h
   servicegraph    10.83.242.48    <none>            8088:31928/TCP                5h
   ```

   Note: If your cluster is running in an environment that does not support an external load balancer
   (e.g., minikube), the `EXTERNAL-IP` of `istio-ingress` says `<pending>`. You must access the
   application using the service NodePort, or use port-forwarding instead.

2. Ensure the corresponding Kubernetes pods are deployed and all containers are up and running:
   `istio-pilot-\*`, `istio-mixer-\*`, `istio-ingress-\*`, `istio-egress-\*`, `istio-ca-\*`,
   and, optionally, `istio-initializer-\*`, `grafana-\*`, `prometheus-\*` and `servicegraph-\*`.

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -n istio-system
   ```
   ```bash
   grafana-3836448452-vhc1v            1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-ca-3657790228-j21b9           1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-egress-1684034556-fhw89       1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-ingress-1842462111-j3vcs      1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-initializer-184129454-zdgf5   1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-pilot-2275554717-93c43        1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-mixer-2104784889-20rm8        2/2       Running   0          5h
   prometheus-3067433533-wlmt2         1/1       Running   0          5h
   servicegraph-3127588006-pc5z3       1/1       Running   0          5h
   ```

## Deploy your application

You can now deploy your own application or one of the sample applications provided with the
installation like [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html).
Note: the application must use HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2.0 protocol for all its HTTP traffic because HTTP/1.0 is not supported.

Unless you installed the Istio-Initializer as shown above, when deploying the application, you must
use [istioctl kube-inject]({{home}}/docs/reference/commands/istioctl.html#istioctl-kube-inject) to
automatically inject Envoy containers in your application pods:

```bash
kubectl create -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f <your-app-spec>.yaml)
```

## Uninstalling

1. Uninstall any Istio add-ons:

   ```bash
   kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/addons/
   ```


1. Uninstall Istio core components. For the {{ site.data.istio.version }} release, the uninstall
   deletes the RBAC permissions, the `istio-system` namespace, and hierarchically all resources under it.
   It is safe to ignore errors for non-existent resources because they may have been deleted hierarchically.

   * If you installed Istio with mutual TLS authentication disabled:

     ```bash
     kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio.yaml
     ```

   * If you installed Istio with mutual TLS authentication enabled:

     ```bash
     kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio-auth.yaml
     ```

1. Delete Istio's [Kubernetes CRDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/):

   ```bash
   kubectl get crd -o 'jsonpath={.items[*].metadata.name}' | xargs -n 1 | fgrep config.istio.io | xargs kubectl delete crd
   ```

## What's next

* See the sample [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) application.

* See how to [test Istio Auth]({{home}}/docs/tasks/security/istio-auth.html).

Commit message:

Clarify more detail for how to create application when enable initializer. (#532)

_docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.md, after:

---
title: Quick Start
overview: Quick Start instructions to setup the Istio service mesh in a Kubernetes cluster.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
---

{% include home.html %}

Quick Start instructions to install and configure Istio in a Kubernetes cluster.


## Prerequisites

The following instructions assume you have access to a Kubernetes **1.7.4 or newer** cluster
with [RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/) enabled.
If you wish to enable [transparent injection of sidecar]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/automatic-sidecar-inject.html), you need to turn on Kubernetes alpha features in your cluster.

  > Note: If you installed Istio 0.1.x,
  > [uninstall](https://istio.io/v-0.1/docs/tasks/installing-istio.html#uninstalling)
  > it completely before installing the newer version (including the Istio sidecar
  > for all Istio enabled application pods).

* Depending on your Kubernetes provider:
  * To install Istio locally, install the latest version of
    [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/minikube/) (version 0.22.1 or later).

  * If you are using [Google Container Engine](https://cloud.google.com/container-engine),
    retrieve your credentials for kubectl:

    ```bash
    gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> --zone <zone> --project <project-name>
    ```
    Replace `<cluster-name>` with the name of the cluster you want to use and `<zone>`
    with the zone that cluster is in.

  * If you are using [IBM Bluemix Container Service](https://www.ibm.com/cloud-computing/bluemix/containers), retrieve your
    credentials for kubectl:

    ```bash
    $(bx cs cluster-config <cluster-name>|grep "export KUBECONFIG")
    ```
    where `<cluster-name>` is the name of the cluster you want to use.

  * If you are using [Openshift Origin](https://www.openshift.org) version 3.7 or later,
    Openshift by default does not allow containers running with UID 0. Enable containers running
    with UID 0 for Istio's service accounts for ingress and egress:

    ```bash
    oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z istio-ingress-service-account -n istio-system
    oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z istio-egress-service-account -n istio-system
    ```  

* Install or upgrade the Kubernetes CLI
  [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) to
  match the version supported by your cluster (version 1.7 or later for CRD
  support).

## Installation steps

Starting with the {{ site.data.istio.version }} release, Istio is installed in its own `istio-system`
 namespace, and can manage micro-services from all other namespaces.

 1. Go to the [Istio release](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases) page to download the
    installation file corresponding to your OS. If you are using a MacOS or Linux system, you can also
    run the following command to download and extract the latest release automatically:
    ```bash
    curl -L https://git.io/getLatestIstio | sh -
    ```

1. Extract the installation file and change the directory to the file location. The
   installation directory contains:
    * Installation `.yaml` files for Kubernetes in `install/`
    * Sample applications in `samples/`
    * The `istioctl` client binary in the `bin/` directory. `istioctl` is used when manually injecting Envoy as a sidecar proxy and for creating routing rules and policies.
    * The `istio.VERSION` configuration file

1. Add the `istioctl` client to your PATH.
   For example, run the following command on a MacOS or Linux system:

   ```bash
   export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
   ```

1. Install Istio's core components. Choose one of the two _**mutually exclusive**_ options below:

    a. Install Istio without enabling [authentication]({{home}}/docs/concepts/network-and-auth/auth.html) between sidecars with
       [mutual TLS authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication).
       Choose this option for clusters with existing applications, applications where services with an
       Istio sidecar need to be able to communicate with other non-Istio Kubernetes services, and
       applications that use [liveliness and readiness probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/), headless services, or statefulsets.

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio.yaml
      ```

    _**OR**_

    b. Install Istio and enable [authentication]({{home}}/docs/concepts/network-and-auth/auth.html) between sidecars with [mutual TLS authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication):

     ```bash
     kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-auth.yaml
     ```

   Both options create the `istio-system` namespace along with the required RBAC permissions,
   and deploy Istio-Pilot, Istio-Mixer, Istio-Ingress, Istio-Egress, and Istio-CA (Certificate Authority).

1. *Optional:* If your cluster has Kubernetes alpha features enabled, and you wish to enable a
   [transparent injection of sidecar]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/automatic-sidecar-inject.html), install the Istio-Initializer:

    ```bash
     kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-initializer.yaml
     ```

1. *Optional:* Install add-ons for metric collection and/or request tracing as described in the following sections.

### Enabling metrics collection

To collect and view metrics provided by Mixer, install [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io)
as well as the [Grafana](https://grafana.com/grafana/download) and/or ServiceGraph add-ons.

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/grafana.yaml
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/servicegraph.yaml
```
You can find out more about how to use these tools in [Collecting Metrics and Logs]({{home}}/docs/tasks/metrics-logs.html).

#### Verifying the Grafana dashboard

The Grafana add-on provides an Istio dashboard visualization of the metrics in the cluster
such as request rates and success or failure rates. After you install Grafana, check that you can
 access the dashboard.

Configure port-forwarding for the `grafana` service:

  ```bash
  kubectl port-forward -n istio-system $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=grafana -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 3000:3000 &
  ```

Point your web browser to [http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-dashboard](http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-dashboard).
The dashboard looks similar to the following:

<figure><img style="max-width:80%" src="./img/grafana_dashboard.png" alt="Grafana Istio Dashboard" title="Grafana Istio Dashboard" />
<figcaption>Grafana Istio Dashboard</figcaption></figure>

#### Verifying the ServiceGraph service

The ServiceGraph add-on provides a textual (JSON) representation and a graphical visualization of the
service interaction graph for the cluster. Like Grafana, you can access the servicegraph service using
port-forwarding, service nodePort, or, if external load balancing is available, external IP. In this
example the service name is `servicegraph` and the port to access is `8088`:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n istio-system $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system -l app=servicegraph -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 8088:8088 &
```

The ServiceGraph service provides both a textual (JSON) representation (via `/graph`) and a graphical
visualization (via `/dotviz`) of the underlying service graph. If you configured port forwarding using
the above command, you can view the graphical visualization by opening your browser at [http://localhost:8088/dotviz](http://localhost:8088/dotviz).  You will see an empty page initially before you have any microservices deployed.

After you run some services, a service graph builds. For example, after installing the
[BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application and generating some load on the
application (e.g., executing `curl` requests in a `while` loop), the resulting service graph looks
similar to the following:

<figure><img src="./img/servicegraph.png" alt="BookInfo Service Graph" title="BookInfo Service Graph" />
<figcaption>BookInfo Service Graph</figcaption></figure>


## Verifying the installation

1. Ensure the following Kubernetes services are deployed: `istio-pilot`, `istio-mixer`,
   `istio-ingress`, `istio-egress`, and, optionally, `grafana`, `prometheus` and `servicegraph`.

   ```bash
   kubectl get svc -n istio-system
   ```
   ```bash
   NAME            CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)                       AGE
   grafana         10.83.252.16    <none>            3000:30432/TCP                5h
   istio-egress    10.83.247.89    <none>            80/TCP                        5h
   istio-ingress   10.83.245.171   35.184.245.62     80:32730/TCP,443:30574/TCP    5h
   istio-pilot     10.83.251.173   <none>            8080/TCP,8081/TCP             5h
   istio-mixer     10.83.244.253   <none>            9091/TCP,9094/TCP,42422/TCP   5h
   prometheus      10.83.247.221   <none>            9090:30398/TCP                5h
   servicegraph    10.83.242.48    <none>            8088:31928/TCP                5h
   ```

   Note: If your cluster is running in an environment that does not support an external load balancer
   (e.g., minikube), the `EXTERNAL-IP` of `istio-ingress` says `<pending>`. You must access the
   application using the service NodePort, or use port-forwarding instead.

2. Ensure the corresponding Kubernetes pods are deployed and all containers are up and running:
   `istio-pilot-\*`, `istio-mixer-\*`, `istio-ingress-\*`, `istio-egress-\*`, `istio-ca-\*`,
   and, optionally, `istio-initializer-\*`, `grafana-\*`, `prometheus-\*` and `servicegraph-\*`.

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -n istio-system
   ```
   ```bash
   grafana-3836448452-vhc1v            1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-ca-3657790228-j21b9           1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-egress-1684034556-fhw89       1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-ingress-1842462111-j3vcs      1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-initializer-184129454-zdgf5   1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-pilot-2275554717-93c43        1/1       Running   0          5h
   istio-mixer-2104784889-20rm8        2/2       Running   0          5h
   prometheus-3067433533-wlmt2         1/1       Running   0          5h
   servicegraph-3127588006-pc5z3       1/1       Running   0          5h
   ```

## Deploy your application

You can now deploy your own application or one of the sample applications provided with the
installation like [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html).
Note: the application must use HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2.0 protocol for all its HTTP traffic because HTTP/1.0 is not supported.

If you have the Istio-Initializer as shown above installed, you can deploy the application directly via
`kubectl create`, the Istio-Initializer will automatically inject Envoy containers in your application pods:

```bash
kubectl create -f <your-app-spec>.yaml
```

If you do not have the Istio-Initializer as shown above installed, when deploying the application, you must
use [istioctl kube-inject]({{home}}/docs/reference/commands/istioctl.html#istioctl-kube-inject) to
automatically inject Envoy containers in your application pods:

```bash
kubectl create -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f <your-app-spec>.yaml)
```

## Uninstalling

1. Uninstall any Istio add-ons:

   ```bash
   kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/addons/
   ```


1. Uninstall Istio core components. For the {{ site.data.istio.version }} release, the uninstall
   deletes the RBAC permissions, the `istio-system` namespace, and hierarchically all resources under it.
   It is safe to ignore errors for non-existent resources because they may have been deleted hierarchically.

   * If you installed Istio with mutual TLS authentication disabled:

     ```bash
     kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio.yaml
     ```

   * If you installed Istio with mutual TLS authentication enabled:

     ```bash
     kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio-auth.yaml
     ```

1. Delete Istio's [Kubernetes CRDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/):

   ```bash
   kubectl get crd -o 'jsonpath={.items[*].metadata.name}' | xargs -n 1 | fgrep config.istio.io | xargs kubectl delete crd
   ```

## What's next

* See the sample [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) application.

* See how to [test Istio Auth]({{home}}/docs/tasks/security/istio-auth.html).
