_docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection.md, before:

---
title: Installing Istio Sidecar
overview: Instructions for installing the Istio sidecar in application pods automatically using the sidecar injector webhook or manually using istioctl CLI.

order: 50

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

_NOTE_: The following requires Istio 0.5.0 or greater. See [https://archive.istio.io/v0.4/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection](https://archive.istio.io/v0.4/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection) for Istio versions 0.4.0 or older.

_NOTE_: In previous releases the Kubernetes initializer feature has been used for automatic proxy injection. This was an alpha feature subject to change/removal and not enabled by default in Kubernetes. Starting in Istio 0.5.0 release the automatic proxy injection uses Kubernetes mutating webhooks. This Kubernetes feature is beta and available by default in Kubernetes 1.9 and beyond. Support for the alpha initializer mechanism for proxy injection has been removed in 0.5.0. Users who cannot uprade to Kubernetes 1.9 should use manual injection.

# Pod Spec Requirements

In order to be a part of the service mesh, each pod in the kubernetes
cluster must satisfy the following requirements:

1. _**Service association**:_ The pod must belong to a _single_
  [Kubernetes Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
  (pods that belong to multiple services are not supported as of now).

1. _**Named ports**:_ Service ports must be named. The port names must be of
  the form `<protocol>[-<suffix>]` with _http_, _http2_, _grpc_, _mongo_, or _redis_
  as the `<protocol>` in order to take advantage of Istio's routing features.
  For example, `name: http2-foo` or `name: http` are valid port names, but
  `name: http2foo` is not.  If the port name does not begin with a recognized
  prefix or if the port is unnamed, traffic on the port will be treated as
  plain TCP traffic (unless the port explicitly uses `Protocol: UDP` to
  signify a UDP port).

1. _**Deployments with app label**:_ It is recommended that Pods deployed using
  the Kubernetes `Deployment` have an explicit `app` label in the
  Deployment specification. Each deployment specification should have a
  distinct `app` label with a value indicating something meaningful. The
  `app` label is used to add contextual information in distributed
  tracing.

1. _**Sidecar in every pod in mesh**:_ Finally, each pod in the mesh must be
  running an Istio compatible sidecar. The following sections describe two
  ways of injecting the Istio sidecar into a pod: manually using `istioctl`
  CLI tool or automatically using the Istio Initializer.  Note that the
  sidecar is not involved in traffic between containers in the same pod.
  
# Injection

Manual injection modifies the controller configuration, e.g. deployment. It 
does this by modifying the pod template spec such that *all* pods for that
deployment are created with the injected sidecar. Adding/Updating/Removing
the sidecar requires modifying the entire deployment.

Automatic injection injects at pod creation time. The controller resource is 
unmodified. Sidecars can be updated selectively by manually deleting a pods or
systematically with a deployment rolling update.

Manual and automatic injection use the same templated configuration. Automatic 
injection loads the configuration from the `istio-inject` ConfigMap in the 
`istio-system` namespace. Manual injection can load from a local file or from 
the ConfigMap.

Two variants of the injection configuration are provided with the default 
install: `istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml` 
and `istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-debug.yaml`. The injection configmap includes 
the default injection policy and sidecar injection template. The debug version 
includes debug proxy images and additional logging and core dump functionality using 
for debugging the sidecar proxy. 

## Manual sidecar injection

Use the built-in defaults template and dynamically fetch the mesh 
configuration from the `istio` ConfigMap. Additional parameter overrides
are available via flags (see `istioctl kube-inject --help`).

```bash
kubectl apply -f <(~istioctl kube-inject -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml)
```

`kube-inject` can also be run without access to a running Kubernetes
cluster. Create local copies of the injection and mesh configmap.

```bash
kubectl create -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml \
    --dry-run \
    -o=jsonpath='{.data.config}' > inject-config.yaml
    
kubectl -n istio-system get configmap istio -o=jsonpath='{.data.mesh}' > mesh-config.yaml
```
  `
Run `kube-inject` over the input file.

```bash
istioctl kube-inject \
    --injectConfigFile inject-config.yaml \
    --meshConfigFile mesh-config.yaml \
    --filename samples/sleep/sleep.yaml \
    --output sleep-injected.yaml
```

Deploy the injected YAML file.

```bash
kubectl apply -f sleep-injected.yaml    
```

Verify that the sidecar has been injected into the deployment.

```bash
kubectl get deployment sleep -o wide
```
```
NAME      DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE       CONTAINERS          IMAGES                             SELECTOR
sleep     1         1         1            1           2h        sleep,istio-proxy   tutum/curl,unknown/proxy:unknown   app=sleep
```

## Automatic sidecar injection

See [validatingadmissionwebhook-alpha-in-18-beta-in-19](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/admission-controllers/#validatingadmissionwebhook-alpha-in-18-beta-in-19) for overview of webhook admission controller.

### Prerequisites

Kubernetes 1.9 cluster is required with `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` enabled.

```bash
kubectl api-versions | grep admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
```
```
admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
```

#### GKE

1.9.1 is available for non-whitelisted early access users with alpha clusters (see [https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/release-notes#january-16-2018](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/release-notes#january-16-2018)). 

```bash
gcloud container clusters create <cluster-name> \
    --enable-kubernetes-alpha 
    --cluster-version=1.9.1-gke.0 
    --zone=<zone>
    --project <project-name>
```
```bash
gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> \
    --zone <zone> \
    --project <project-name>
```
```bash
kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding \
    --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
    --user=$(gcloud config get-value core/account)
```

#### minikube 

Minikube version v0.25.0 or later is required for Kubernetes v1.9. Get the latest version from [https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases).

```bash
minikube start \
	--extra-config=controller-manager.ClusterSigningCertFile="/var/lib/localkube/certs/ca.crt" \
	--extra-config=controller-manager.ClusterSigningKeyFile="/var/lib/localkube/certs/ca.key" \
	--extra-config=apiserver.Admission.PluginNames=NamespaceLifecycle,LimitRanger,ServiceAccount,PersistentVolumeLabel,DefaultStorageClass,DefaultTolerationSeconds,MutatingAdmissionWebhook,ValidatingAdmissionWebhook,ResourceQuota \
	--kubernetes-version=v1.9.0
```
### Installing the Webhook 

Install base Istio.

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio.yaml
```

Webhooks requires a signed cert/key pair. Use `install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh` to generate 
a cert/key pair signed by the Kubernetes' CA. The resulting cert/key file is stored as a Kubernetes 
secret for the sidecar injector webhook to consume. 

_Note_: Kubernetes CA approval requires permissions to create and approve CSR. See 
[https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster ](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster) and 
[install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh) for more information.

```bash
./install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh \
    --service istio-sidecar-injector \
    --namespace istio-system \
    --secret sidecar-injector-certs
```

Install the sidecar injection configmap. 

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml
```

Set the `caBundle` in the webhook install YAML that the Kubernetes api-server 
uses to invoke the webhook. 

```bash
cat install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector.yaml | \
     ./install/kubernetes/webhook-patch-ca-bundle.sh > \
     install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml
```

Install the sidecar injector webhook.

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml
```

The sidecar injector webhook should now be running.

```bash
kubectl -n istio-system get deployment -listio=sidecar-injector
```
```
NAME                     DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-sidecar-injector   1         1         1            1           1d
```

NamespaceSelector decides whether to run the webhook on an object based on whether the namespace for that object matches the selector (see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#label-selectors). The default webhook configuration uses `istio-injection=enabled`. 

View namespaces showing `istio-injection` label and verify the `default` namespace is not labeled.

```bash
kubectl get namespace -L istio-injection
```
```
NAME           STATUS        AGE       ISTIO-INJECTION
default        Active        1h        
istio-system   Active        1h        
kube-public    Active        1h        
kube-system    Active        1h
```

#### Deploying an app

Deploy sleep app. Verify both deployment and pod have a single container.

```bash
kubectl apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml 
```
```bash
kubectl get deployment -o wide
```
```
NAME      DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE       CONTAINERS   IMAGES       SELECTOR
sleep     1         1         1            1           12m       sleep        tutum/curl   app=sleep
```
```bash
kubectl get pod
```
```
NAME                     READY     STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
sleep-776b7bcdcd-7hpnk   1/1       Running       0          4
```

Label the `default` namespace with `istio-injection=enabled`

```bash
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
```
```bash
kubectl get namespace -L istio-injection
```
```
NAME           STATUS    AGE       ISTIO-INJECTION
default        Active    1h        enabled
istio-system   Active    1h        
kube-public    Active    1h        
kube-system    Active    1h  
```

Injection occurs at pod creation time. Kill the running pod and verify a new pod is created with the injected sidecar. The original pod has 1/1 READY containers and the pod with injected sidecar has 2/2 READY containers.

```bash
kubectl delete pod sleep-776b7bcdcd-7hpnk 
```
```bash
kubectl get pod
```
```
NAME                     READY     STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
sleep-776b7bcdcd-7hpnk   1/1       Terminating   0          1m
sleep-776b7bcdcd-bhn9m   2/2       Running       0          7s
```

Disable injection for the `default` namespace and verify new pods are created without the sidecar.

```bash
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection-
```
```bash
kubectl delete pod sleep-776b7bcdcd-bhn9m 
```
```bash
kubectl get pod
```
```
NAME                     READY     STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
sleep-776b7bcdcd-bhn9m   2/2       Terminating   0          2m
sleep-776b7bcdcd-gmvnr   1/1       Running       0          2s
```

#### Understanding what happened

[admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1#MutatingWebhookConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.9/#mutatingwebhookconfiguration-v1beta1-admissionregistration) 
configures when the webhook is invoked by Kubernetes. The default 
supplied with Istio selects pods in namespaces with label `istio-injection=enabled`. 
This can be changed by modifying the MutatingWebhookConfiguration in
`install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml`.

The `istio-inject` ConfigMap in the `istio-system` namespace the default 
injection policy and sidecar injection template.

##### _**policy**_
    
`disabled` - The sidecar injector will not inject the sidecar into
pods by default. Add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with 
value `true` to the pod template spec to enable injection.
   
`enabled` - The sidecar injector will inject the sidecar into pods by
default. Add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with 
value `false` to the pod template spec to disable injection.
    
##### _**template**_
   
The sidecar injection template uses [https://golang.org/pkg/text/template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template) which, 
when parsed and exectuted, is decoded to the following 
struct containing the list of containers and volumes to inject into the pod. 
   
```golang
type SidecarInjectionSpec struct {
      InitContainers []v1.Container `yaml:"initContainers"`
      Containers     []v1.Container `yaml:"containers"`
      Volumes        []v1.Volume    `yaml:"volumes"`
}
```

The template is applied to the following data structure at runtime. 
    
```golang
type SidecarTemplateData struct {
    ObjectMeta  *metav1.ObjectMeta        
    Spec        *v1.PodSpec               
    ProxyConfig *meshconfig.ProxyConfig  // Defined by https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/service-mesh.html#proxyconfig
    MeshConfig  *meshconfig.MeshConfig   // Defined by https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/service-mesh.html#meshconfig 
}
```

`ObjectMeta` and `Spec` are from the pod. `ProxyConfig` and `MeshConfig` 
are from the `istio` ConfigMap in the `istio-system` namespace. Templates can conditional 
define injected containers and volumes with this data. 

For example, the following template snippet from `install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml`

{% raw %}
```yaml
containers:
- name: istio-proxy
  image: istio.io/proxy:0.5.0
  args:
  - proxy
  - sidecar
  - --configPath
  - {{ .ProxyConfig.ConfigPath }}
  - --binaryPath
  - {{ .ProxyConfig.BinaryPath }}
  - --serviceCluster
  {{ if ne "" (index .ObjectMeta.Labels "app") -}}
  - {{ index .ObjectMeta.Labels "app" }}
  {{ else -}}
  - "istio-proxy"
  {{ end -}}
```
{% endraw %}

expands to 

```yaml
containers:
- name: istio-proxy
  image: istio.io/proxy:0.5.0
  args:
  - proxy
  - sidecar
  - --configPath
  - /etc/istio/proxy
  - --binaryPath
  - /usr/local/bin/envoy
  - --serviceCluster
  - sleep
```
 
when applied over a pod defined by the pod template spec in [samples/sleep/sleep.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml).

### Uninstalling the webhook

```bash
kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml
```

The above command will not remove the injected sidecars from
Pods. A rolling update or simply deleting the pods and forcing
the deployment to create them is required.

Commit message:

Update docs to refer to GKE using v1.9.2 (#961)
Fixes to the wording about s/initalizer/mutating webhook/ and fixes to the script for installing a GKE cluster, now that 1.9.x is GA.

_docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection.md, after:

---
title: Installing Istio Sidecar
overview: Instructions for installing the Istio sidecar in application pods automatically using the sidecar injector webhook or manually using istioctl CLI.

order: 50

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

_NOTE_: The following requires Istio 0.5.0 or greater. See [https://archive.istio.io/v0.4/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection](https://archive.istio.io/v0.4/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection) for Istio versions 0.4.0 or older.

_NOTE_: In previous releases, the Kubernetes initializer feature was used for automatic proxy injection. This was an Alpha feature, subject to change/removal, and not enabled by default in Kubernetes. Starting in Kubernetes 1.9 it was replaced by a beta feature called [mutating webhooks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/admission-controllers/#mutatingadmissionwebhook-beta-in-19), which is now enabled by default in Kubernetes 1.9 and beyond. Starting in Istio 0.5.0 the automatic proxy injection uses mutating webhooks, and support for injection by initializer has been removed. Users who cannot uprade to Kubernetes 1.9 should use manual injection.

# Pod Spec Requirements

In order to be a part of the service mesh, each pod in the Kubernetes
cluster must satisfy the following requirements:

1. _**Service association**:_ The pod must belong to a _single_
  [Kubernetes Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
  (pods that belong to multiple services are not supported as of now).

1. _**Named ports**:_ Service ports must be named. The port names must be of
  the form `<protocol>[-<suffix>]` with _http_, _http2_, _grpc_, _mongo_, or _redis_
  as the `<protocol>` in order to take advantage of Istio's routing features.
  For example, `name: http2-foo` or `name: http` are valid port names, but
  `name: http2foo` is not.  If the port name does not begin with a recognized
  prefix or if the port is unnamed, traffic on the port will be treated as
  plain TCP traffic (unless the port explicitly uses `Protocol: UDP` to
  signify a UDP port).

1. _**Deployments with app label**:_ It is recommended that Pods deployed using
  the Kubernetes `Deployment` have an explicit `app` label in the
  Deployment specification. Each deployment specification should have a
  distinct `app` label with a value indicating something meaningful. The
  `app` label is used to add contextual information in distributed
  tracing.

1. _**Sidecar in every pod in mesh**:_ Finally, each pod in the mesh must be
  running an Istio compatible sidecar. The following sections describe two
  ways of injecting the Istio sidecar into a pod: manually using `istioctl`
  CLI tool or automatically using the Istio Initializer.  Note that the
  sidecar is not involved in traffic between containers in the same pod.
  
# Injection

Manual injection modifies the controller configuration, e.g. deployment. It 
does this by modifying the pod template spec such that *all* pods for that
deployment are created with the injected sidecar. Adding/Updating/Removing
the sidecar requires modifying the entire deployment.

Automatic injection injects at pod creation time. The controller resource is 
unmodified. Sidecars can be updated selectively by manually deleting a pods or
systematically with a deployment rolling update.

Manual and automatic injection use the same templated configuration. Automatic 
injection loads the configuration from the `istio-inject` ConfigMap in the 
`istio-system` namespace. Manual injection can load from a local file or from 
the ConfigMap.

Two variants of the injection configuration are provided with the default 
install: `istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml` 
and `istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-debug.yaml`. The injection configmap includes 
the default injection policy and sidecar injection template. The debug version 
includes debug proxy images and additional logging and core dump functionality using 
for debugging the sidecar proxy. 

## Manual sidecar injection

Use the built-in defaults template and dynamically fetch the mesh 
configuration from the `istio` ConfigMap. Additional parameter overrides
are available via flags (see `istioctl kube-inject --help`).

```bash
kubectl apply -f <(~istioctl kube-inject -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml)
```

`kube-inject` can also be run without access to a running Kubernetes
cluster. Create local copies of the injection and mesh configmap.

```bash
kubectl create -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml \
    --dry-run \
    -o=jsonpath='{.data.config}' > inject-config.yaml
    
kubectl -n istio-system get configmap istio -o=jsonpath='{.data.mesh}' > mesh-config.yaml
```
  `
Run `kube-inject` over the input file.

```bash
istioctl kube-inject \
    --injectConfigFile inject-config.yaml \
    --meshConfigFile mesh-config.yaml \
    --filename samples/sleep/sleep.yaml \
    --output sleep-injected.yaml
```

Deploy the injected YAML file.

```bash
kubectl apply -f sleep-injected.yaml    
```

Verify that the sidecar has been injected into the deployment.

```bash
kubectl get deployment sleep -o wide
```
```
NAME      DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE       CONTAINERS          IMAGES                             SELECTOR
sleep     1         1         1            1           2h        sleep,istio-proxy   tutum/curl,unknown/proxy:unknown   app=sleep
```

## Automatic sidecar injection

Sidecars can be automatically added to applicable Kubernetes pods using a 
[mutating webhook admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/admission-controllers/#validatingadmissionwebhook-alpha-in-18-beta-in-19), available in Kubernetes 1.9 and above.

### Prerequisites

A Kubernetes 1.9 cluster is required, with the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` API enabled.  This is enabled by default on most instllations.  If you want to check, you can grep:

```bash
kubectl api-versions | grep admissionregistration
```

You should see 
```
admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
```

#### Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

Kubernetes 1.9 is generally available on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).  At the time of writing it is not the default version, so to create a cluster:

```bash
gcloud container clusters create <cluster-name> \
    --cluster-version=1.9.2-gke.1 
    --zone <zone>
    --project <project-name>
```
```bash
gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> \
    --zone <zone> \
    --project <project-name>
```
```bash
kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding \
    --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
    --user=$(gcloud config get-value core/account)
```

#### minikube 

Minikube version v0.25.0 or later is required for Kubernetes v1.9. Get the latest version from [https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases).

```bash
minikube start \
	--extra-config=controller-manager.ClusterSigningCertFile="/var/lib/localkube/certs/ca.crt" \
	--extra-config=controller-manager.ClusterSigningKeyFile="/var/lib/localkube/certs/ca.key" \
	--extra-config=apiserver.Admission.PluginNames=NamespaceLifecycle,LimitRanger,ServiceAccount,PersistentVolumeLabel,DefaultStorageClass,DefaultTolerationSeconds,MutatingAdmissionWebhook,ValidatingAdmissionWebhook,ResourceQuota \
	--kubernetes-version=v1.9.0
```
### Installing the Webhook 

Install base Istio.

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio.yaml
```

Webhooks requires a signed cert/key pair. Use `install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh` to generate 
a cert/key pair signed by the Kubernetes' CA. The resulting cert/key file is stored as a Kubernetes 
secret for the sidecar injector webhook to consume. 

_Note_: Kubernetes CA approval requires permissions to create and approve CSR. See 
[https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster ](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster) and 
[install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh) for more information.

```bash
./install/kubernetes/webhook-create-signed-cert.sh \
    --service istio-sidecar-injector \
    --namespace istio-system \
    --secret sidecar-injector-certs
```

Install the sidecar injection configmap. 

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml
```

Set the `caBundle` in the webhook install YAML that the Kubernetes api-server 
uses to invoke the webhook. 

```bash
cat install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector.yaml | \
     ./install/kubernetes/webhook-patch-ca-bundle.sh > \
     install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml
```

Install the sidecar injector webhook.

```bash
kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml
```

The sidecar injector webhook should now be running.

```bash
kubectl -n istio-system get deployment -listio=sidecar-injector
```
```
NAME                     DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-sidecar-injector   1         1         1            1           1d
```

NamespaceSelector decides whether to run the webhook on an object based on whether the namespace for that object matches the selector (see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#label-selectors). The default webhook configuration uses `istio-injection=enabled`. 

View namespaces showing `istio-injection` label and verify the `default` namespace is not labeled.

```bash
kubectl get namespace -L istio-injection
```
```
NAME           STATUS        AGE       ISTIO-INJECTION
default        Active        1h        
istio-system   Active        1h        
kube-public    Active        1h        
kube-system    Active        1h
```

#### Deploying an app

Deploy sleep app. Verify both deployment and pod have a single container.

```bash
kubectl apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml 
```
```bash
kubectl get deployment -o wide
```
```
NAME      DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE       CONTAINERS   IMAGES       SELECTOR
sleep     1         1         1            1           12m       sleep        tutum/curl   app=sleep
```
```bash
kubectl get pod
```
```
NAME                     READY     STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
sleep-776b7bcdcd-7hpnk   1/1       Running       0          4
```

Label the `default` namespace with `istio-injection=enabled`

```bash
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
```
```bash
kubectl get namespace -L istio-injection
```
```
NAME           STATUS    AGE       ISTIO-INJECTION
default        Active    1h        enabled
istio-system   Active    1h        
kube-public    Active    1h        
kube-system    Active    1h  
```

Injection occurs at pod creation time. Kill the running pod and verify a new pod is created with the injected sidecar. The original pod has 1/1 READY containers and the pod with injected sidecar has 2/2 READY containers.

```bash
kubectl delete pod sleep-776b7bcdcd-7hpnk 
```
```bash
kubectl get pod
```
```
NAME                     READY     STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
sleep-776b7bcdcd-7hpnk   1/1       Terminating   0          1m
sleep-776b7bcdcd-bhn9m   2/2       Running       0          7s
```

Disable injection for the `default` namespace and verify new pods are created without the sidecar.

```bash
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection-
```
```bash
kubectl delete pod sleep-776b7bcdcd-bhn9m 
```
```bash
kubectl get pod
```
```
NAME                     READY     STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
sleep-776b7bcdcd-bhn9m   2/2       Terminating   0          2m
sleep-776b7bcdcd-gmvnr   1/1       Running       0          2s
```

#### Understanding what happened

[admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1#MutatingWebhookConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.9/#mutatingwebhookconfiguration-v1beta1-admissionregistration) 
configures when the webhook is invoked by Kubernetes. The default 
supplied with Istio selects pods in namespaces with label `istio-injection=enabled`. 
This can be changed by modifying the MutatingWebhookConfiguration in
`install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml`.

The `istio-inject` ConfigMap in the `istio-system` namespace the default 
injection policy and sidecar injection template.

##### _**policy**_
    
`disabled` - The sidecar injector will not inject the sidecar into
pods by default. Add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with 
value `true` to the pod template spec to enable injection.
   
`enabled` - The sidecar injector will inject the sidecar into pods by
default. Add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject` annotation with 
value `false` to the pod template spec to disable injection.
    
##### _**template**_
   
The sidecar injection template uses [https://golang.org/pkg/text/template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template) which, 
when parsed and exectuted, is decoded to the following 
struct containing the list of containers and volumes to inject into the pod. 
   
```golang
type SidecarInjectionSpec struct {
      InitContainers []v1.Container `yaml:"initContainers"`
      Containers     []v1.Container `yaml:"containers"`
      Volumes        []v1.Volume    `yaml:"volumes"`
}
```

The template is applied to the following data structure at runtime. 
    
```golang
type SidecarTemplateData struct {
    ObjectMeta  *metav1.ObjectMeta        
    Spec        *v1.PodSpec               
    ProxyConfig *meshconfig.ProxyConfig  // Defined by https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/service-mesh.html#proxyconfig
    MeshConfig  *meshconfig.MeshConfig   // Defined by https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/service-mesh.html#meshconfig 
}
```

`ObjectMeta` and `Spec` are from the pod. `ProxyConfig` and `MeshConfig` 
are from the `istio` ConfigMap in the `istio-system` namespace. Templates can conditional 
define injected containers and volumes with this data. 

For example, the following template snippet from `install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-configmap-release.yaml`

{% raw %}
```yaml
containers:
- name: istio-proxy
  image: istio.io/proxy:0.5.0
  args:
  - proxy
  - sidecar
  - --configPath
  - {{ .ProxyConfig.ConfigPath }}
  - --binaryPath
  - {{ .ProxyConfig.BinaryPath }}
  - --serviceCluster
  {{ if ne "" (index .ObjectMeta.Labels "app") -}}
  - {{ index .ObjectMeta.Labels "app" }}
  {{ else -}}
  - "istio-proxy"
  {{ end -}}
```
{% endraw %}

expands to 

```yaml
containers:
- name: istio-proxy
  image: istio.io/proxy:0.5.0
  args:
  - proxy
  - sidecar
  - --configPath
  - /etc/istio/proxy
  - --binaryPath
  - /usr/local/bin/envoy
  - --serviceCluster
  - sleep
```
 
when applied over a pod defined by the pod template spec in [samples/sleep/sleep.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml).

### Uninstalling the webhook

```bash
kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio-sidecar-injector-with-ca-bundle.yaml
```

The above command will not remove the injected sidecars from
Pods. A rolling update or simply deleting the pods and forcing
the deployment to create them is required.
