_docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring.md, before:

---
title: Mirroring
overview: This task demonstrates the traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities of Istio

order: 60

layout: docs
type: markdown
---

This task demonstrates the traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilites of Istio. Traffic mirroring is a powerful concept that allows feature teams to bring changes to production with as little risk as possible. Mirroring brings a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service and happens out of band of the critical request path for the primary service.


## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide]({{home}}/docs/setup/).
  
* Start two versions of the `httpbin` service that have access logging enabled

httpbin-v1:

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: httpbin-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: httpbin
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: httpbin
        command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
EOF
```
httpbin-v2:

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: httpbin-v2
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: httpbin
        version: v2
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: httpbin
        command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
EOF
```

httpbin Kubernetes service:

 ```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: httpbin
  labels:
    app: httpbin
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 8080
  selector:
    app: httpbin
EOF
```   


* Start the `sleep` service so we can use `curl` to provide load

sleep service:

 ```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sleep
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sleep
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sleep
        image: tutum/curl
        command: ["/bin/sleep","infinity"]
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
EOF
```   




## Mirroring

Let's set up a scenario to demonstrate the traffic-mirroring capabilities of Istio. We have two versions of our `httpbin` service. By default Kubernetes will load balance across both versions of the service. We'll use Istio to force all traffic to v1 of the `httpbin` service. 

### Creating default routing policy

1. Create a default route rule to route all traffic to `v1` of our `httpbin` service:

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: RouteRule
metadata:
  name: httpbin-default-v1
spec:
  destination:
    name: httpbin
  precedence: 5
  route:
  - labels:
      version: v1
EOF
```

Now all traffic should go to `httpbin v1` service. Let's try sending in some traffic:

```bash
export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers'

{
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*", 
    "Content-Length": "0", 
    "Host": "httpbin:8080", 
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.35.0", 
    "X-B3-Sampled": "1", 
    "X-B3-Spanid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a", 
    "X-B3-Traceid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a", 
    "X-Ot-Span-Context": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;0000000000000000"
  }
}
```

If we check the logs for `v1` and `v2` of our `httpbin` pods, we should see access log entries for only `v1`:

```bash
$  kubectl logs -f httpbin-v1-2113278084-98whj -c httpbin 
127.0.0.1 - - [07/Feb/2018:00:07:39 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 349 "-" "curl/7.35.0" 
```

2. Create a route rule to mirror traffic to v2

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: RouteRule
metadata:
  name: mirror-traffic-to-httbin-v2
spec:
  destination:
    name: httpbin
  precedence: 11
  route:
  - labels:
      version: v1
    weight: 100
  - labels: 
      version: v2
    weight: 0
  mirror:
    name: httpbin
    labels:
      version: v2
EOF
```

This route rule specifies we route 100% of the traffic to v1 and 0% to v2. At the moment, it's necesary to call out the v2 service explicitly because this is what creates the envoy-cluster definitions in the background. In future versions, we'll work to improve this so we don't have to explicitly specify a 0% weighted routing. 

The last stanza specifies we want to mirror to the `httpbin v2` service. When traffic gets mirrored, the requests are sent to the mirrored service with its Host/Authority header appended with *-shadow*. For example, *cluster-1* becomes *cluster-1-shadow*. Also important to realize is that these requests are mirrored as "fire and forget", i.e., the responses are discarded. 


Now if we send in traffic:

```bash
kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers'
```

We should see access logging for both `v1` and `v2`. The access logs created in `v2` is the mirrored requests that are actually going to `v1`.
   


## Cleaning up

1. Remove the rules.
    
   ```bash
   istioctl delete routerule mirror-traffic-to-httbin-v2
   istioctl delete routerule httpbin-default-v1
   ```

1. Shutdown the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/httpbin) service and client.

   ```bash
   kubectl delete deploy httpbin-v1 httpbin-v2 sleep
   kubectl delete svc httpbin
   ```

## What's next

Check out the [Mirroring configuration]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/istio.routing.v1alpha1.html) reference section for more settings for traffic mirroring.

Commit message:

Make the rake test ensure that we use {{home}} consistently. (#1053)
We now generate the test site into a subdirectory such that we can ensure all
links are correctly using {{home}}, which makes the site work correctly once
archived.

Fixed a bunch of broken cases.

_docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring.md, after:

---
title: Mirroring
overview: Demonstrates Istio's traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities

order: 60

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task demonstrates Istio's traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities. Traffic mirroring is a powerful concept that allows feature teams to bring
changes to production with as little risk as possible. Mirroring brings a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service and happens out of band of the critical request path for the primary service.


## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide]({{home}}/docs/setup/).
  
* Start two versions of the `httpbin` service that have access logging enabled

httpbin-v1:

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: httpbin-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: httpbin
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: httpbin
        command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
EOF
```
httpbin-v2:

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: httpbin-v2
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: httpbin
        version: v2
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: httpbin
        command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
EOF
```

httpbin Kubernetes service:

 ```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: httpbin
  labels:
    app: httpbin
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 8080
  selector:
    app: httpbin
EOF
```   


* Start the `sleep` service so we can use `curl` to provide load

sleep service:

 ```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sleep
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sleep
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sleep
        image: tutum/curl
        command: ["/bin/sleep","infinity"]
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
EOF
```   




## Mirroring

Let's set up a scenario to demonstrate the traffic-mirroring capabilities of Istio. We have two versions of our `httpbin` service. By default Kubernetes will load balance across both versions of the service. We'll use Istio to force all traffic to v1 of the `httpbin` service. 

### Creating default routing policy

1. Create a default route rule to route all traffic to `v1` of our `httpbin` service:

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: RouteRule
metadata:
  name: httpbin-default-v1
spec:
  destination:
    name: httpbin
  precedence: 5
  route:
  - labels:
      version: v1
EOF
```

Now all traffic should go to `httpbin v1` service. Let's try sending in some traffic:

```bash
export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers'

{
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*", 
    "Content-Length": "0", 
    "Host": "httpbin:8080", 
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.35.0", 
    "X-B3-Sampled": "1", 
    "X-B3-Spanid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a", 
    "X-B3-Traceid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a", 
    "X-Ot-Span-Context": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;0000000000000000"
  }
}
```

If we check the logs for `v1` and `v2` of our `httpbin` pods, we should see access log entries for only `v1`:

```bash
$  kubectl logs -f httpbin-v1-2113278084-98whj -c httpbin 
127.0.0.1 - - [07/Feb/2018:00:07:39 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 349 "-" "curl/7.35.0" 
```

2. Create a route rule to mirror traffic to v2

```bash
cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
apiVersion: config.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: RouteRule
metadata:
  name: mirror-traffic-to-httbin-v2
spec:
  destination:
    name: httpbin
  precedence: 11
  route:
  - labels:
      version: v1
    weight: 100
  - labels: 
      version: v2
    weight: 0
  mirror:
    name: httpbin
    labels:
      version: v2
EOF
```

This route rule specifies we route 100% of the traffic to v1 and 0% to v2. At the moment, it's necesary to call out the v2 service explicitly because this is what creates the envoy-cluster definitions in the background. In future versions, we'll work to improve this so we don't have to explicitly specify a 0% weighted routing. 

The last stanza specifies we want to mirror to the `httpbin v2` service. When traffic gets mirrored, the requests are sent to the mirrored service with its Host/Authority header appended with *-shadow*. For example, *cluster-1* becomes *cluster-1-shadow*. Also important to realize is that these requests are mirrored as "fire and forget", i.e., the responses are discarded. 


Now if we send in traffic:

```bash
kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers'
```

We should see access logging for both `v1` and `v2`. The access logs created in `v2` is the mirrored requests that are actually going to `v1`.
   


## Cleaning up

1. Remove the rules.
    
   ```bash
   istioctl delete routerule mirror-traffic-to-httbin-v2
   istioctl delete routerule httpbin-default-v1
   ```

1. Shutdown the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/httpbin) service and client.

   ```bash
   kubectl delete deploy httpbin-v1 httpbin-v2 sleep
   kubectl delete svc httpbin
   ```

## What's next

Check out the [Mirroring configuration]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/istio.routing.v1alpha1.html) reference section for more settings for traffic mirroring.
