content/docs/tasks/telemetry/servicegraph/index.md, before:

---
title: Generating a Service Graph
description: This task shows you how to generate a graph of services within an Istio mesh.
weight: 50
keywords: [telemetry,visualization]
---

This task shows you how to generate a graph of services within an Istio mesh.
As part of this task, you will install the Servicegraph add-on and use
the web-based interface for viewing service graph of the service mesh.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

## Generating a Service Graph

1.  Verify that the service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get svc servicegraph
    NAME           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    servicegraph   10.59.253.165   <none>        8088/TCP   30s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
    {{< /text >}}

    Refresh the page a few times (or send the command a few times) to generate a
    small amount of traffic.

    > `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.

1.  Open the Servicegraph UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=servicegraph -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 8088:8088 &
    {{< /text >}}

    Visit [http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html](http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html)
    in your web browser. Try clicking on a service to see details on
    the service. Real time traffic data is shown in a panel below.

    The results will look similar to:

    {{< image width="75%" ratio="156.57%"
    link="./servicegraph-example.png"
    caption="Example Servicegraph"
    >}}

1.  Experiment with Query Parameters

    Visit
    [http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html?time_horizon=15s&filter_empty=true](http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html?time_horizon=15s&filter_empty=true)
    in your web browser. Note the query parameters provided.

    `filter_empty=true` will only show services that are currently receiving traffic within the time horizon.

    `time_horizon=15s` affects the filter above, and also affects the
    reported traffic information when clicking on a service. The
    traffic information will be aggregated over the specified time
    horizon.

    The default behavior is to not filter empty services, and use a
    time horizon of 5 minutes.

### About the Servicegraph add-on

The [Servicegraph]({{< github_tree >}}/addons/servicegraph)
service provides endpoints for generating and visualizing a graph of
services within a mesh. It exposes the following endpoints:

* `/force/forcegraph.html` As explored above, this is an interactive
  [D3.js](https://d3js.org/) visualization.

* `/dotviz` is a static [Graphviz](https://graphviz.gitlab.io/)
  visualization.

* `/dotgraph` provides a
  [DOT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOT_(graph_description_language))
  serialization.

* `/d3graph` provides a JSON serialization for D3 visualization.

* `/graph` provides a generic JSON serialization.

All endpoints take the query parameters explored above.

The Servicegraph example is built on top of Prometheus queries and
depends on the standard Istio metric configuration.

## Cleanup

*   Remove any `kubectl port-forward` processes that may still be running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ killall kubectl
    {{< /text >}}

*   If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
    [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
    to shutdown the application.

Commit message:

Add Kiali Task to istio.io (#2715)
* add Kiali Task to istio.io
add deprecation notice to the SerivceGraph Task

* add some more instructions on getting the Kiali UI to help assist those on environments like minikube

* add cleanup instructions for kiali

* simplify the section to determine kiali url

* use present tense

* more present tense changes
split up the "Send traffic" item into two actions.

* more verb tense changes to get things more into present tense

* updates based on some feedback

* re-write the "determine kiali url" section

* split login step into two steps - visit with browser, then login

* reword some of the steps involving logging in and looking at the initial pages.

* reword the graph type step - use list items, not numbered, for the different types. Adds the new service graph type.

* reword the examine istio config step

* changes to the api section

* some final changes of the api section and the cleanup section

* trivial fix to capitalization

* some small trivial changes

content/docs/tasks/telemetry/servicegraph/index.md, after:

---
title: Generating a Service Graph
description: This task shows you how to generate a graph of services within an Istio mesh.
weight: 50
keywords: [telemetry,visualization]
---

> {{< warning_icon >}} The Service Graph is being deprecated in Istio 1.1 in favor of [Kiali](../kiali).

This task shows you how to generate a graph of services within an Istio mesh.
As part of this task, you will install the Servicegraph add-on and use
the web-based interface for viewing service graph of the service mesh.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

## Generating a Service Graph

1.  Verify that the service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system get svc servicegraph
    NAME           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    servicegraph   10.59.253.165   <none>        8088/TCP   30s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
    {{< /text >}}

    Refresh the page a few times (or send the command a few times) to generate a
    small amount of traffic.

    > `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.

1.  Open the Servicegraph UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=servicegraph -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 8088:8088 &
    {{< /text >}}

    Visit [http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html](http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html)
    in your web browser. Try clicking on a service to see details on
    the service. Real time traffic data is shown in a panel below.

    The results will look similar to:

    {{< image width="75%" ratio="156.57%"
    link="./servicegraph-example.png"
    caption="Example Servicegraph"
    >}}

1.  Experiment with Query Parameters

    Visit
    [http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html?time_horizon=15s&filter_empty=true](http://localhost:8088/force/forcegraph.html?time_horizon=15s&filter_empty=true)
    in your web browser. Note the query parameters provided.

    `filter_empty=true` will only show services that are currently receiving traffic within the time horizon.

    `time_horizon=15s` affects the filter above, and also affects the
    reported traffic information when clicking on a service. The
    traffic information will be aggregated over the specified time
    horizon.

    The default behavior is to not filter empty services, and use a
    time horizon of 5 minutes.

### About the Servicegraph add-on

The [Servicegraph]({{< github_tree >}}/addons/servicegraph)
service provides endpoints for generating and visualizing a graph of
services within a mesh. It exposes the following endpoints:

* `/force/forcegraph.html` As explored above, this is an interactive
  [D3.js](https://d3js.org/) visualization.

* `/dotviz` is a static [Graphviz](https://graphviz.gitlab.io/)
  visualization.

* `/dotgraph` provides a
  [DOT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOT_(graph_description_language))
  serialization.

* `/d3graph` provides a JSON serialization for D3 visualization.

* `/graph` provides a generic JSON serialization.

All endpoints take the query parameters explored above.

The Servicegraph example is built on top of Prometheus queries and
depends on the standard Istio metric configuration.

## Cleanup

*   Remove any `kubectl port-forward` processes that may still be running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ killall kubectl
    {{< /text >}}

*   If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
    [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
    to shutdown the application.
