content/en/boilerplates/notes/1.3.md, before:

## Installation

- **Added** experimental [manifest and profile commands](/docs/setup/install/operator/) to install and manage the Istio control plane for evaluation.

## Traffic management

- **Added** [automatic determination](/docs/ops/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) of protocol types. You no longer need to explicitly prefix service ports with their protocol type.
- **Added** a mode to the Gateway API for mutual TLS operation.
- **Fixed** issues present when a service communicates over the network first in permissive mutual TLS mode for protocols like MySQL and MongoDB.
- **Improved** Envoy proxy readiness checks. They now check Envoy's readiness status.
- **Improved** container ports are no longer required in the pod spec. All ports are [captured by default](/faq/traffic-management/#controlling-inbound-ports).
- **Improved** the `EnvoyFilter` API. You can now add or update all configurations.
- **Improved** the Redis load balancer to now default to [`MAGLEV`](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.6.0/intro/arch_overview/load_balancing#maglev) when using the Redis proxy.
- **Improved** load balancing to direct traffic to the [same region and zone](/faq/traffic-management/#controlling-inbound-ports) by default.
- **Improved** Pilot by reducing CPU utilization. The reduction approaches 90% depending on the specific deployment.
- **Improved** the `ServiceEntry` API to allow for the same hostname in different namespaces.
- **Improved** the [Sidecar API](/docs/reference/config/networking/v1alpha3/sidecar/#OutboundTrafficPolicy) to customize the `OutboundTrafficPolicy` policy.

## Security

- **Added** trust domain validation for services using mutual TLS. By default, the server only authenticates the requests from the same trust domain.
- **Added** [labels](/docs/concepts/security/#how-citadel-determines-whether-to-create-service-account-secrets) to control service account secret generation by namespace.
- **Added** SDS support to deliver the private key and certificates to each Istio control plane service.
- **Added** support for [introspection](/docs/ops/troubleshooting/controlz/) to Citadel.
- **Added** metrics to the `/metrics` endpoint of Citadel Agent on port 15014 to monitor the SDS service.
- **Added** diagnostics to the Citadel Agent using the `/debug/sds/workload` and `/debug/sds/gateway` on port 8080.
- **Improved** the ingress gateway to [load the trusted CA certificate from a separate secret](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress-sds/#configure-a-mutual-tls-ingress-gateway) when using SDS.
- **Improved** SDS security by enforcing the usage of [Kubernetes Trustworthy JWTs](/blog/2019/trustworthy-jwt-sds).
- **Improved** Citadel Agent logs by unifying the logging pattern.
- **Removed** support for Istio SDS when using [Kubernetes versions earlier than 1.13](/blog/2019/trustworthy-jwt-sds).
- **Removed** integration with Vault CA temporarily. SDS requirements caused the temporary removal but we will reintroduce Vault CA integration in a future release.
- **Enabled** the Envoy JWT filter by default to improve security and reliability.

## Telemetry

- **Added** Access Log Service [ALS](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v2/service/accesslog/v2/als.proto#grpc-access-log-service-als) support for Envoy gRPC.
- **Added** a Grafana dashboard for Citadel monitoring.
- **Added** [metrics](/docs/reference/commands/sidecar-injector/#metrics) for monitoring the sidecar injector webhook.
- **Added** control plane metrics to monitor Istio's configuration state.
- **Added** telemetry reporting for traffic destined to the `Passthrough` and `BlackHole` clusters.
- **Added** alpha support for in-proxy generation of service metrics using Prometheus.
- **Added** alpha support for environmental metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Added** alpha support for Proxy Metadata Exchange.
- **Added** alpha support for the OpenCensus trace driver.
- **Improved** reporting for external services by removing requirements to add a service entry.
- **Improved** the mesh dashboard to provide monitoring of Istio's configuration state.
- **Improved** the Pilot dashboard to expose additional key metrics to more clearly identify errors.
- **Removed** deprecated `Adapter` and `Template` custom resource definitions (CRDs).
- **Deprecated** Mixer adapters. Please begin the transition of all extensions to the new extension model. Legacy Mixer integration support continues only for Istio 1.3 and 1.4.
- **Deprecated** the HTTP API spec used to produce API attributes. We will remove support for producing API attributes in Istio 1.4.

## Policy

- **Improved** rate limit enforcement to allow communication when the quota backend is unavailable.

## Configuration management

- **Fixed** Galley to stop too many gRPC pings from closing connections.
- **Improved** Galley to avoid control plane upgrade failures.

## `istioctl`

- **Added** [`istioctl experimental manifest`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-manifest) to manage the new experimental install manifests.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental profile`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-profile) to manage the new experimental install profiles.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental metrics`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-metrics)
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental describe pod`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-describe-pod) to describe an Istio pod's configuration.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental add-to-mesh`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-add-to-mesh) to add Kubernetes services or virtual machines to an existing Istio service mesh.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental remove-from-mesh`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-remove-from-mesh) to remove Kubernetes services or virtual machines from an existing Istio service mesh.
- **Promoted** the [`istioctl experimental convert-ingress`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-convert-ingress) command to `istioctl convert-ingress`.
- **Promoted** the [`istioctl experimental dashboard`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-dashboard) command to `istioctl dashboard`.

## Other

- **Added** new images based on [distroless](/docs/ops/security/harden-docker-images/) base images.
- **Improved** the Istio CNI Helm chart to have consistent versions with Istio.
- **Improved** Kubernetes Jobs behavior. Kubernetes Jobs now exit correctly when the job manually calls the `/quitquitquit` endpoint.

Commit message:

clarify the release note due to change (#4973)
* clarify the release note due to change

in auto protocol detection yesterday

* add link

content/en/boilerplates/notes/1.3.md, after:

## Installation

- **Added** experimental [manifest and profile commands](/docs/setup/install/operator/) to install and manage the Istio control plane for evaluation.

## Traffic management

- **Added** [automatic determination](/docs/ops/traffic-management/protocol-selection/) of HTTP or TCP for outbound traffic when ports are not named according to Istio’s [conventions](/docs/setup/additional-setup/requirements/). 
- **Added** a mode to the Gateway API for mutual TLS operation.
- **Fixed** issues present when a service communicates over the network first in permissive mutual TLS mode for protocols like MySQL and MongoDB.
- **Improved** Envoy proxy readiness checks. They now check Envoy's readiness status.
- **Improved** container ports are no longer required in the pod spec. All ports are [captured by default](/faq/traffic-management/#controlling-inbound-ports).
- **Improved** the `EnvoyFilter` API. You can now add or update all configurations.
- **Improved** the Redis load balancer to now default to [`MAGLEV`](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.6.0/intro/arch_overview/load_balancing#maglev) when using the Redis proxy.
- **Improved** load balancing to direct traffic to the [same region and zone](/faq/traffic-management/#controlling-inbound-ports) by default.
- **Improved** Pilot by reducing CPU utilization. The reduction approaches 90% depending on the specific deployment.
- **Improved** the `ServiceEntry` API to allow for the same hostname in different namespaces.
- **Improved** the [Sidecar API](/docs/reference/config/networking/v1alpha3/sidecar/#OutboundTrafficPolicy) to customize the `OutboundTrafficPolicy` policy.

## Security

- **Added** trust domain validation for services using mutual TLS. By default, the server only authenticates the requests from the same trust domain.
- **Added** [labels](/docs/concepts/security/#how-citadel-determines-whether-to-create-service-account-secrets) to control service account secret generation by namespace.
- **Added** SDS support to deliver the private key and certificates to each Istio control plane service.
- **Added** support for [introspection](/docs/ops/troubleshooting/controlz/) to Citadel.
- **Added** metrics to the `/metrics` endpoint of Citadel Agent on port 15014 to monitor the SDS service.
- **Added** diagnostics to the Citadel Agent using the `/debug/sds/workload` and `/debug/sds/gateway` on port 8080.
- **Improved** the ingress gateway to [load the trusted CA certificate from a separate secret](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress-sds/#configure-a-mutual-tls-ingress-gateway) when using SDS.
- **Improved** SDS security by enforcing the usage of [Kubernetes Trustworthy JWTs](/blog/2019/trustworthy-jwt-sds).
- **Improved** Citadel Agent logs by unifying the logging pattern.
- **Removed** support for Istio SDS when using [Kubernetes versions earlier than 1.13](/blog/2019/trustworthy-jwt-sds).
- **Removed** integration with Vault CA temporarily. SDS requirements caused the temporary removal but we will reintroduce Vault CA integration in a future release.
- **Enabled** the Envoy JWT filter by default to improve security and reliability.

## Telemetry

- **Added** Access Log Service [ALS](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v2/service/accesslog/v2/als.proto#grpc-access-log-service-als) support for Envoy gRPC.
- **Added** a Grafana dashboard for Citadel monitoring.
- **Added** [metrics](/docs/reference/commands/sidecar-injector/#metrics) for monitoring the sidecar injector webhook.
- **Added** control plane metrics to monitor Istio's configuration state.
- **Added** telemetry reporting for traffic destined to the `Passthrough` and `BlackHole` clusters.
- **Added** alpha support for in-proxy generation of service metrics using Prometheus.
- **Added** alpha support for environmental metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Added** alpha support for Proxy Metadata Exchange.
- **Added** alpha support for the OpenCensus trace driver.
- **Improved** reporting for external services by removing requirements to add a service entry.
- **Improved** the mesh dashboard to provide monitoring of Istio's configuration state.
- **Improved** the Pilot dashboard to expose additional key metrics to more clearly identify errors.
- **Removed** deprecated `Adapter` and `Template` custom resource definitions (CRDs).
- **Deprecated** Mixer adapters. Please begin the transition of all extensions to the new extension model. Legacy Mixer integration support continues only for Istio 1.3 and 1.4.
- **Deprecated** the HTTP API spec used to produce API attributes. We will remove support for producing API attributes in Istio 1.4.

## Policy

- **Improved** rate limit enforcement to allow communication when the quota backend is unavailable.

## Configuration management

- **Fixed** Galley to stop too many gRPC pings from closing connections.
- **Improved** Galley to avoid control plane upgrade failures.

## `istioctl`

- **Added** [`istioctl experimental manifest`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-manifest) to manage the new experimental install manifests.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental profile`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-profile) to manage the new experimental install profiles.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental metrics`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-metrics)
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental describe pod`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-describe-pod) to describe an Istio pod's configuration.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental add-to-mesh`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-add-to-mesh) to add Kubernetes services or virtual machines to an existing Istio service mesh.
- **Added** [`istioctl experimental remove-from-mesh`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-experimental-remove-from-mesh) to remove Kubernetes services or virtual machines from an existing Istio service mesh.
- **Promoted** the [`istioctl experimental convert-ingress`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-convert-ingress) command to `istioctl convert-ingress`.
- **Promoted** the [`istioctl experimental dashboard`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-dashboard) command to `istioctl dashboard`.

## Other

- **Added** new images based on [distroless](/docs/ops/security/harden-docker-images/) base images.
- **Improved** the Istio CNI Helm chart to have consistent versions with Istio.
- **Improved** Kubernetes Jobs behavior. Kubernetes Jobs now exit correctly when the job manually calls the `/quitquitquit` endpoint.
