content/zh/blog/2018/istio-twitch-stream/index.md, before:

---
title: Istio 在 Twitch 上全天直播
subtitle:
description: Istio 在 Twitch 举办了为期一天的直播庆祝 1.0 的发布。
publishdate: 2018-08-03
attribution: Spencer Krum, IBM
---

为了庆祝 Istio 1.0 版本的发布并向更广泛的受众推广该软件，8月17日 Istio 社区在 Twitch 举办了一天的实况直播。

## Twitch 是什么？

[Twitch](https://twitch.tv/) 是一个流行的视频游戏直播流媒体平台，最近也看到了大量的编码内容出现。IBM 的倡导者一直在那里进行实况编码和演示，这是很有趣的事情。虽然大多数都是和游戏有关的内容，但是在网站上与编程相关的分享和观看的[社区](https://www.twitch.tv/communities/programming)在持续增长中。

## 它用 Istio 做了什么？

Istio 在平台上发布的全天的内容，希望可以给观众讲解如何将深度技术内容、初级内容和业务线内容做良好融合。我们有开发人员、用户和布道者来分享示例和故事。期待现场编码，QA 和一些惊喜。我们有来自 IBM、Google、Datadog、Pivotal和更多的明星嘉宾。

## 如何观看

很简单！只要在8月17日上午10点导航到[这里](https://twitch.tv/ibmcode)。

## 安排

任何时候都是 `PDT`.

| 时间 | 演讲者 | 从属关系 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 10:00 - 10:30 | `Spencer Krum + Lisa-Marie Namphy` | `IBM / Portworx` |
| 10:30 - 11:00 | `Lin Sun / Spencer Krum / Sven Mawson` | `IBM / Google` |
| 11:00 - 11:10 | `Lin Sun / Spencer Krum` | `IBM` |
| 11:10 - 11:30 | `Jason Yee / Ilan Rabinovich` | `Datadog` |
| 11:30 - 11:50  | `April Nassl` | `Google` |
| 11:50 - 12:10  | `Spike Curtis` | `Tigera` |
| 12:10 - 12:30  | `Shannon Coen` | `Pivotal` |
| 12:30 - 1:00  | `Matt Klein` | `Lyft` |
| 1:00 - 1:20  | `Zach Jory` | `F5/Aspen Mesh` |
| 1:20 - 1:40  | `Dan Ciruli` | `Google` |
| 1:40 - 2:00 | `Isaiah Snell-Feikema` / `Greg Hanson` | `IBM` |
| 2:00 - 2:20  | `Zach Butcher` | `Tetrate` |
| 2:20 - 2:40   | `Ray Hudaihed` | `American Airlines` |
| 2:40 - 3:00  | `Christian Posta` | `Red Hat` |
| 3:00 - 3:20  | `Google/IBM China` | `Google / IBM` |
| 3:20 - 3:40 | `Colby Dyess` | `Tuffin` |
| 3:40 - 4:00  | `Rohit Agarwalla` | `Cisco` |

## 参加直播活动

我们希望你也能来。在 Istio slack 或 rocket chat 上联系 ``@nibalizer`` 就可以开始了。

Commit message:

zh-translation: initialize the translation content (#5305)
* zh-translation: initialize the translation content

- Restart the Chinese translation precess, refer to https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/5250
- Translation progress is tracked on https://github.com/servicemesher/istio-official-translation

content/zh/blog/2018/istio-twitch-stream/index.md, after:

---
title: All Day Istio Twitch Stream
subtitle:
description: Istio hosting an all day Twitch stream to celebrate the 1.0 release.
publishdate: 2018-08-03
attribution: Spencer Krum, IBM
target_release: 1.0
---

To celebrate the 1.0 release and to promote the software to a wider audience, the Istio community is hosting an all day live stream on Twitch on August 17th.

## What is Twitch?

[Twitch](https://twitch.tv/) is a popular video gaming live streaming platform and recently has seen a lot of coding content showing up. The IBM Advocates have been doing live coding and presentations there and it's been fun. While mostly used for gaming content, there is a [growing community](https://www.twitch.tv/communities/programming) sharing and watching programming content on the site.

## What does this have to do with Istio?

The stream is going to be a full day of Istio content. Hopefully we'll have a good mix of deep technical content, beginner content and line-of-business content for our audience. We'll have developers, users, and evangelists on throughout the day to share their demos and stories. Expect live coding, q and a, and some surprises. We have stellar guests lined up from IBM, Google, Datadog, Pivotal, and more!

## Recordings

Recordings are available [here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzpeuWUENMK0V3dwpx5gPJun-SLG0USqU).

## Schedule

All times are `PDT`.

| Time | Speaker | Affiliation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 10:00 - 10:30 | `Spencer Krum + Lisa-Marie Namphy` | `IBM / Portworx` |
| 10:30 - 11:00 | `Lin Sun / Spencer Krum / Sven Mawson` | `IBM / Google` |
| 11:00 - 11:10 | `Lin Sun / Spencer Krum` | `IBM` |
| 11:10 - 11:30 | `Jason Yee / Ilan Rabinovich` | `Datadog` |
| 11:30 - 11:50  | `April Nassl` | `Google` |
| 11:50 - 12:10  | `Spike Curtis` | `Tigera` |
| 12:10 - 12:30  | `Shannon Coen` | `Pivotal` |
| 12:30 - 1:00  | `Matt Klein` | `Lyft` |
| 1:00 - 1:20  | `Zach Jory` | `F5/Aspen Mesh` |
| 1:20 - 1:40  | `Dan Ciruli` | `Google` |
| 1:40 - 2:00 | `Isaiah Snell-Feikema` / `Greg Hanson` | `IBM` |
| 2:00 - 2:20  | `Zach Butcher` | `Tetrate` |
| 2:20 - 2:40   | `Ray Hudaihed` | `American Airlines` |
| 2:40 - 3:00  | `Christian Posta` | `Red Hat` |
| 3:00 - 3:20  | `Google/IBM China` | `Google / IBM` |
| 3:20 - 3:40 | `Colby Dyess` | `Tuffin` |
| 3:40 - 4:00  | `Rohit Agarwalla` | `Cisco` |
