_docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Welcome
overview: Istio documentation home page.

order: 0

layout: docs
type: markdown
toc: false
---
{% include home.html %}

From here you can learn all about Istio's architecture and how to deploy and use Istio.

- [Concepts]({{home}}/docs/concepts/). Concepts explain some significant aspect of Istio. This
is where you can learn about what Istio does and how it does it.

- [Setup]({{home}}/docs/setup/). Setup contains instructions for installing
  the Istio control plane in various environments, as well as instructions
  for installing the sidecar in the application deployment. Quick start
  instructions are available for
  [Kubernetes]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html) and
  [Docker Compose w/ Consul]({{home}}/docs/setup/consul/quick-start.html).

- [Tasks]({{home}}/docs/tasks/). Tasks show you how to do a single directed activity with Istio.

- [Guides]({{home}}/docs/guides/). Guides are fully working stand-alone examples
intended to highlight a particular set of Istio's features.

- [Reference]({{home}}/docs/reference/). Detailed exhaustive lists of
command-line options, configuration options, API definitions, and procedures.

We're always looking for help improving our documentation, so please don't hesitate to
[file an issue](https://github.com/istio/istio.github.io/issues/new) if you see some problem.
Or better yet, submit your own [contributions]({{home}}/about/contribute/editing.html) to help
make our docs better.

Follow this link for the archive of the [earlier releases' documentation](https://archive.istio.io/).

Commit message:

Improve mobile experience. (#1158)
- The two call to action buttons on the landing page are now displayed one of top of
the other on small screens instead of next to one another.

- On mobile, when you scroll down a page, an arrow shows up in the top right of the screen
to let you scroll back to the top of the page. This is mighty handy since on mobile there
isn't a TOC available to click on.

- Add some convenient links on the docs' section landing page.

_docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Welcome
overview: Istio documentation home page.

order: 0

layout: docs
type: markdown
toc: false
---
{% include home.html %}

From here you can learn all about Istio's architecture and how to deploy and use Istio.

- [Concepts]({{home}}/docs/concepts/). Concepts explain some significant aspect of Istio. This
is where you can learn about what Istio does and how it does it.

- [Setup]({{home}}/docs/setup/). Setup contains instructions for installing
  the Istio control plane in various environments, as well as instructions
  for installing the sidecar in the application deployment. Quick start
  instructions are available for
  [Kubernetes]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html) and
  [Docker Compose w/ Consul]({{home}}/docs/setup/consul/quick-start.html).

- [Tasks]({{home}}/docs/tasks/). Tasks show you how to do a single directed activity with Istio.

- [Guides]({{home}}/docs/guides/). Guides are fully working stand-alone examples
intended to highlight a particular set of Istio's features.

- [Reference]({{home}}/docs/reference/). Detailed exhaustive lists of
command-line options, configuration options, API definitions, and procedures.

In addition, you might find these links interesting:

- The latest Istio monthly release is {{site.data.istio.version}}: [download {{site.data.istio.version}}](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases),
[release notes]({{home}}/about/notes/{{site.data.istio.version}}.html).

- Nostalgic for the days gone by? We keep an [archive of the earlier releases' documentation](https://archive.istio.io/).

- We're always looking for help improving our documentation, so please don't hesitate to
[file an issue](https://github.com/istio/istio.github.io/issues/new) if you see some problem.
Or better yet, submit your own [contributions]({{home}}/about/contribute/editing.html) to help
make our docs better.
