content/en/blog/2019/multicluster-version-routing/index.md, before:

---
title: Version Routing in a Multicluster Service Mesh
description: Configuring Istio route rules in a multicluster service mesh.
publishdate: 2019-02-07
subtitle:
attribution: Frank Budinsky (IBM)
keywords: [traffic-management,multicluster]
---

If you've spent any time looking at Istio, you've probably noticed that it includes a lot of features that
can be demonstrated with simple [tasks](/docs/tasks/) and [examples](/docs/examples/)
running on a single Kubernetes cluster.
Because most, if not all, real-world cloud and microservices-based applications are not that simple
and will need to have the services distributed and running in more than one location, you may be
wondering if all these things will be just as simple in your real production environment.

Fortunately, Istio provides several ways to configure a service mesh so that applications
can, more-or-less transparently, be part of a mesh where the services are running
in more than one cluster, i.e., in a
[multi-cluster deployment](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/#multiple-clusters).
The simplest way to setup a multi-cluster mesh, because it has no special networking requirements,
is using a simple
[control plane model](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/#control-plane-models).
In this configuration, each Kubernetes cluster contributing to the mesh has its own control plane,
but each control plane is synchronized and running under a single administrative control.

In this article we'll look at how one of the features of Istio,
[traffic management](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/), works in a multicluster mesh with
a dedicated control plane topology.
We'll show how to configure Istio route rules to call remote services in a multicluster service mesh
by deploying the [Bookinfo sample]({{<github_tree>}}/samples/bookinfo) with version `v1` of the `reviews` service
running in one cluster, versions `v2` and `v3` running in a second cluster.

## Setup clusters

To start, you'll need two Kubernetes clusters, both running a slightly customized configuration of Istio.

* Set up a multicluster environment with two Istio clusters by following the
    [dedicated control planes](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/) instructions.

* The `kubectl` command is used to access both clusters with the `--context` flag.
    Use the following command to list your contexts:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config get-contexts
    CURRENT   NAME       CLUSTER    AUTHINFO       NAMESPACE
    *         cluster1   cluster1   user@foo.com   default
              cluster2   cluster2   user@foo.com   default
    {{< /text >}}

* Export the following environment variables with the context names of your configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER1=<cluster1 context name>
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER2=<cluster2 context name>
    {{< /text >}}

## Deploy version v1 of the `bookinfo` application in `cluster1`

Run the `productpage` and `details` services and version `v1` of the `reviews` service in `cluster1`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: productpage
  labels:
    app: productpage
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: productpage
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: productpage-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: productpage
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: productpage
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-productpage-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: details
  labels:
    app: details
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: details
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: details-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: details
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: details
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-details-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: reviews
  labels:
    app: reviews
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: reviews
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: reviews-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: reviews
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: reviews
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-reviews-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy `bookinfo` v2 and v3 services in `cluster2`

Run the `ratings` service and version `v2` and `v3` of the `reviews` service in `cluster2`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: ratings
  labels:
    app: ratings
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: ratings
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: ratings-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: ratings
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: ratings
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-ratings-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: reviews
  labels:
    app: reviews
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: reviews
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: reviews-v2
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: reviews
        version: v2
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: reviews
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-reviews-v2:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: reviews-v3
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: reviews
        version: v3
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: reviews
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-reviews-v3:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Access the `bookinfo` application

Just like any application, we'll use an Istio gateway to access the `bookinfo` application.

* Create the `bookinfo` gateway in `cluster1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

* Follow the [Bookinfo sample instructions](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#determine-the-ingress-ip-and-port)
    to determine the ingress IP and port and then point your browser to `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`.

You should see the `productpage` with reviews, but without ratings, because only `v1` of the `reviews` service
is running on `cluster1` and we have not yet configured access to `cluster2`.

## Create a service entry and destination rule on `cluster1` for the remote reviews service

As described in the [setup instructions](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#setup-dns),
remote services are accessed with a `.global` DNS name. In our case, it's `reviews.default.global`,
so we need to create a service entry and destination rule for that host.
The service entry will use the `cluster2` gateway as the endpoint address to access the service.
You can use the gateway's DNS name, if it has one, or its public IP, like this:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export CLUSTER2_GW_ADDR=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 svc --selector=app=istio-ingressgateway \
    -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")
{{< /text >}}

Now create the service entry and destination rule using the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: ServiceEntry
metadata:
  name: reviews-default
spec:
  hosts:
  - reviews.default.global
  location: MESH_INTERNAL
  ports:
  - name: http1
    number: 9080
    protocol: http
  resolution: DNS
  addresses:
  - 127.255.0.3
  endpoints:
  - address: ${CLUSTER2_GW_ADDR}
    labels:
      cluster: cluster2
    ports:
      http1: 15443 # Do not change this port value
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews-global
spec:
  host: reviews.default.global
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
  subsets:
  - name: v2
    labels:
      cluster: cluster2
  - name: v3
    labels:
      cluster: cluster2
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The address `127.255.0.3` of the service entry can be any arbitrary unallocated IP.
Using an IP from the loopback range 127.0.0.0/8 is a good choice.
Check out the
[gateway-connected multicluster example](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#configure-the-example-services)
for more details.

Note that the labels of the subsets in the destination rule map to the service entry
endpoint label (`cluster: cluster2`) corresponding to the `cluster2` gateway.
Once the request reaches the destination cluster, a local destination rule will be used
to identify the actual pod labels (`version: v1` or `version: v2`) corresponding to the
requested subset.

## Create a destination rule on both clusters for the local reviews service

Technically, we only need to define the subsets of the local service that are being used
in each cluster (i.e., `v1` in `cluster1`, `v2` and `v3` in `cluster2`), but for simplicity we'll
just define all three subsets in both clusters, since there's nothing wrong with defining subsets
for versions that are not actually deployed.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  host: reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
  subsets:
  - name: v1
    labels:
      version: v1
  - name: v2
    labels:
      version: v2
  - name: v3
    labels:
      version: v3
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  host: reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
  subsets:
  - name: v1
    labels:
      version: v1
  - name: v2
    labels:
      version: v2
  - name: v3
    labels:
      version: v3
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Create a virtual service to route reviews service traffic

At this point, all calls to the `reviews` service will go to the local `reviews` pods (`v1`) because
if you look at the source code you will see that the `productpage` implementation is simply making
requests to `http://reviews:9080` (which expands to host `reviews.default.svc.cluster.local`), the
local version of the service.
The corresponding remote service is named `reviews.default.global`, so route rules are needed to
redirect requests to the global host.

{{< tip >}}
Note that if all of the versions of the `reviews` service were remote, so there is no local `reviews`
service defined, the DNS would resolve `reviews` directly to `reviews.default.global`. In that case
we could call the remote `reviews` service without any route rules.
{{< /tip >}}

Apply the following virtual service to direct traffic for user `jason` to `reviews` versions `v2` and `v3` (50/50)
which are running on `cluster2`. Traffic for any other user will go to `reviews` version `v1`.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  hosts:
    - reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
  http:
  - match:
    - headers:
        end-user:
          exact: jason
    route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews.default.global
        subset: v2
      weight: 50
    - destination:
        host: reviews.default.global
        subset: v3
      weight: 50
  - route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
        subset: v1
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}
This 50/50 rule isn't a particularly realistic example. It's just a convenient way to demonstrate
accessing multiple subsets of a remote service.
{{< /tip >}}

Return to your browser and login as user `jason`. If you refresh the page several times, you should see
the display alternating between black and red ratings stars (`v2` and `v3`). If you logout, you will
only see reviews without ratings (`v1`).

## Summary

In this article, we've seen how to use Istio route rules to distribute the versions of a service
across clusters in a multicluster service mesh with a suitable
[control plane model](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/#control-plane-models).
In this example, we manually configured the `.global` service entry and destination rules needed to provide
connectivity to one remote service, `reviews`. In general, however, if we wanted to enable any service
to run either locally or remotely, we would need to create `.global` resources for every service.
Fortunately, this process could be automated and likely will be in a future Istio release.

Commit message:

Should not use loopback addresses (#5036)
* fix multi cluster dns docs

* fix multi cluster dns docs

* ignore multicast spelling check

content/en/blog/2019/multicluster-version-routing/index.md, after:

---
title: Version Routing in a Multicluster Service Mesh
description: Configuring Istio route rules in a multicluster service mesh.
publishdate: 2019-02-07
subtitle:
attribution: Frank Budinsky (IBM)
keywords: [traffic-management,multicluster]
---

If you've spent any time looking at Istio, you've probably noticed that it includes a lot of features that
can be demonstrated with simple [tasks](/docs/tasks/) and [examples](/docs/examples/)
running on a single Kubernetes cluster.
Because most, if not all, real-world cloud and microservices-based applications are not that simple
and will need to have the services distributed and running in more than one location, you may be
wondering if all these things will be just as simple in your real production environment.

Fortunately, Istio provides several ways to configure a service mesh so that applications
can, more-or-less transparently, be part of a mesh where the services are running
in more than one cluster, i.e., in a
[multi-cluster deployment](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/#multiple-clusters).
The simplest way to setup a multi-cluster mesh, because it has no special networking requirements,
is using a simple
[control plane model](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/#control-plane-models).
In this configuration, each Kubernetes cluster contributing to the mesh has its own control plane,
but each control plane is synchronized and running under a single administrative control.

In this article we'll look at how one of the features of Istio,
[traffic management](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/), works in a multicluster mesh with
a dedicated control plane topology.
We'll show how to configure Istio route rules to call remote services in a multicluster service mesh
by deploying the [Bookinfo sample]({{<github_tree>}}/samples/bookinfo) with version `v1` of the `reviews` service
running in one cluster, versions `v2` and `v3` running in a second cluster.

## Setup clusters

To start, you'll need two Kubernetes clusters, both running a slightly customized configuration of Istio.

* Set up a multicluster environment with two Istio clusters by following the
    [dedicated control planes](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/) instructions.

* The `kubectl` command is used to access both clusters with the `--context` flag.
    Use the following command to list your contexts:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config get-contexts
    CURRENT   NAME       CLUSTER    AUTHINFO       NAMESPACE
    *         cluster1   cluster1   user@foo.com   default
              cluster2   cluster2   user@foo.com   default
    {{< /text >}}

* Export the following environment variables with the context names of your configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER1=<cluster1 context name>
    $ export CTX_CLUSTER2=<cluster2 context name>
    {{< /text >}}

## Deploy version v1 of the `bookinfo` application in `cluster1`

Run the `productpage` and `details` services and version `v1` of the `reviews` service in `cluster1`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: productpage
  labels:
    app: productpage
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: productpage
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: productpage-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: productpage
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: productpage
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-productpage-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: details
  labels:
    app: details
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: details
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: details-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: details
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: details
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-details-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: reviews
  labels:
    app: reviews
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: reviews
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: reviews-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: reviews
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: reviews
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-reviews-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Deploy `bookinfo` v2 and v3 services in `cluster2`

Run the `ratings` service and version `v2` and `v3` of the `reviews` service in `cluster2`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 namespace default istio-injection=enabled
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: ratings
  labels:
    app: ratings
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: ratings
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: ratings-v1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: ratings
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: ratings
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-ratings-v1:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: reviews
  labels:
    app: reviews
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 9080
    name: http
  selector:
    app: reviews
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: reviews-v2
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: reviews
        version: v2
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: reviews
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-reviews-v2:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: reviews-v3
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: reviews
        version: v3
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: reviews
        image: istio/examples-bookinfo-reviews-v3:1.10.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9080
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Access the `bookinfo` application

Just like any application, we'll use an Istio gateway to access the `bookinfo` application.

* Create the `bookinfo` gateway in `cluster1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

* Follow the [Bookinfo sample instructions](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#determine-the-ingress-ip-and-port)
    to determine the ingress IP and port and then point your browser to `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`.

You should see the `productpage` with reviews, but without ratings, because only `v1` of the `reviews` service
is running on `cluster1` and we have not yet configured access to `cluster2`.

## Create a service entry and destination rule on `cluster1` for the remote reviews service

As described in the [setup instructions](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#setup-dns),
remote services are accessed with a `.global` DNS name. In our case, it's `reviews.default.global`,
so we need to create a service entry and destination rule for that host.
The service entry will use the `cluster2` gateway as the endpoint address to access the service.
You can use the gateway's DNS name, if it has one, or its public IP, like this:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export CLUSTER2_GW_ADDR=$(kubectl get --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 svc --selector=app=istio-ingressgateway \
    -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")
{{< /text >}}

Now create the service entry and destination rule using the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: ServiceEntry
metadata:
  name: reviews-default
spec:
  hosts:
  - reviews.default.global
  location: MESH_INTERNAL
  ports:
  - name: http1
    number: 9080
    protocol: http
  resolution: DNS
  addresses:
  - 224.0.0.3
  endpoints:
  - address: ${CLUSTER2_GW_ADDR}
    labels:
      cluster: cluster2
    ports:
      http1: 15443 # Do not change this port value
---
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews-global
spec:
  host: reviews.default.global
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
  subsets:
  - name: v2
    labels:
      cluster: cluster2
  - name: v3
    labels:
      cluster: cluster2
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The address `224.0.0.3` of the service entry can be any arbitrary unallocated IP.
Note that loopback range `127.0.0.0/8` should not be used, as it will influence outbound traffic.
Using an IP from the multicast range 224.0.0.0/4 is a good choice.
Check out the
[gateway-connected multicluster example](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#configure-the-example-services)
for more details.

Note that the labels of the subsets in the destination rule map to the service entry
endpoint label (`cluster: cluster2`) corresponding to the `cluster2` gateway.
Once the request reaches the destination cluster, a local destination rule will be used
to identify the actual pod labels (`version: v1` or `version: v2`) corresponding to the
requested subset.

## Create a destination rule on both clusters for the local reviews service

Technically, we only need to define the subsets of the local service that are being used
in each cluster (i.e., `v1` in `cluster1`, `v2` and `v3` in `cluster2`), but for simplicity we'll
just define all three subsets in both clusters, since there's nothing wrong with defining subsets
for versions that are not actually deployed.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  host: reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
  subsets:
  - name: v1
    labels:
      version: v1
  - name: v2
    labels:
      version: v2
  - name: v3
    labels:
      version: v3
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER2 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  host: reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
  subsets:
  - name: v1
    labels:
      version: v1
  - name: v2
    labels:
      version: v2
  - name: v3
    labels:
      version: v3
EOF
{{< /text >}}

## Create a virtual service to route reviews service traffic

At this point, all calls to the `reviews` service will go to the local `reviews` pods (`v1`) because
if you look at the source code you will see that the `productpage` implementation is simply making
requests to `http://reviews:9080` (which expands to host `reviews.default.svc.cluster.local`), the
local version of the service.
The corresponding remote service is named `reviews.default.global`, so route rules are needed to
redirect requests to the global host.

{{< tip >}}
Note that if all of the versions of the `reviews` service were remote, so there is no local `reviews`
service defined, the DNS would resolve `reviews` directly to `reviews.default.global`. In that case
we could call the remote `reviews` service without any route rules.
{{< /tip >}}

Apply the following virtual service to direct traffic for user `jason` to `reviews` versions `v2` and `v3` (50/50)
which are running on `cluster2`. Traffic for any other user will go to `reviews` version `v1`.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  hosts:
    - reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
  http:
  - match:
    - headers:
        end-user:
          exact: jason
    route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews.default.global
        subset: v2
      weight: 50
    - destination:
        host: reviews.default.global
        subset: v3
      weight: 50
  - route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews.default.svc.cluster.local
        subset: v1
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}
This 50/50 rule isn't a particularly realistic example. It's just a convenient way to demonstrate
accessing multiple subsets of a remote service.
{{< /tip >}}

Return to your browser and login as user `jason`. If you refresh the page several times, you should see
the display alternating between black and red ratings stars (`v2` and `v3`). If you logout, you will
only see reviews without ratings (`v1`).

## Summary

In this article, we've seen how to use Istio route rules to distribute the versions of a service
across clusters in a multicluster service mesh with a suitable
[control plane model](/docs/concepts/deployment-models/#control-plane-models).
In this example, we manually configured the `.global` service entry and destination rules needed to provide
connectivity to one remote service, `reviews`. In general, however, if we wanted to enable any service
to run either locally or remotely, we would need to create `.global` resources for every service.
Fortunately, this process could be automated and likely will be in a future Istio release.
