_docs/reference/config/mixer/attribute-vocabulary.md, before:

---
title: Attribute Vocabulary
overview: Describes the base attribute vocabulary used for policy and control.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

Attributes are a central concept used throughout Istio. You can find a description of what attributes are
and what they are used for [here]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/attributes.html).

A given Istio deployment has a fixed vocabulary of attributes that it understands. The specific vocabulary is
determined by the set of attribute producers being used in the deployment. The primary attribute producer in Istio
is Envoy, although Mixer and services can also introduce attributes.

## Standard Istio attribute vocabulary

The table below shows the set of canonical attributes and their respective types. Most Istio
deployments will have agents (Envoy or Mixer adapters) that produce these attributes.

| Name | Type | Description | Kubernetes Example |
|------|------|-------------|--------------------|
| source.ip | ip_address | Client IP address. | 10.0.0.117 |
| source.service | string | The fully qualified name of the service that the client belongs to. | redis-master.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local |
| source.name | string | The short name part of the source service. | redis-master |
| source.namespace | string | The namespace part of the source service. | my-namespace |
| source.domain | string | The domain suffix part of the source service, excluding the name and the namespace. | svc.cluster.local |
| source.uid | string | Platform-specific unique identifier for the client instance of the source service. | kubernetes://redis-master-2353460263-1ecey.my-namespace |
| source.labels | map[string, string] | A map of key-value pairs attached to the client instance. | version => v1 |
| source.user | string | The identity of the immediate sender of the request, authenticated by mTLS. | service-account-foo |
| target.ip | ip_address | Server IP address. | 10.0.0.104 |
| target.port | int64 | The recipient port on the server IP address. | 8080 |
| target.service | string | The fully qualified name of the service that the server belongs to. | my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local |
| target.name | string | The short name part of the target service. | my-svc |
| target.namespace | string | The namespace part of the target service. | my-namespace |
| target.domain | string | The domain suffix part of the target service, excluding the name and the namespace. | svc.cluster.local |
| target.uid | string | Platform-specific unique identifier for the server instance of the target service. | kubernetes://my-svc-234443-5sffe.my-namespace |
| target.labels | map[string, string] | A map of key-value pairs attached to the server instance. | version => v2 |
| target.user | string | The user running the target application. | service-account |
| request.headers | map[string, string] | HTTP request headers. | |
| request.id | string | An ID for the request with statistically low probability of collision. | |
| request.path | string | The HTTP URL path including query string | |
| request.host | string | HTTP/1.x host header or HTTP/2 authority header. | redis-master:3337 |
| request.method | string | The HTTP method. | |
| request.reason | string | The request reason used by auditing systems. | |
| request.referer | string | The HTTP referer header. | |
| request.scheme | string | URI Scheme of the request | |
| request.size | int64 | Size of the request in bytes. For HTTP requests this is equivalent to the Content-Length header. | |
| request.time | timestamp | The timestamp when the target receives the request. This should be equivalent to Firebase "now". | |
| request.useragent | string | The HTTP User-Agent header. | |
| response.headers | map[string, string] | HTTP response headers. | |
| response.size | int64 | Size of the response body in bytes | |
| response.time | timestamp | The timestamp when the target produced the response. | |
| response.duration | duration | The amount of time the response took to generate. | |
| response.code | int64 | The response's HTTP status code | |

Commit message:

rename (#432)
Merging since pilot switch over to using `destination`

_docs/reference/config/mixer/attribute-vocabulary.md, after:

---
title: Attribute Vocabulary
overview: Describes the base attribute vocabulary used for policy and control.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

Attributes are a central concept used throughout Istio. You can find a description of what attributes are
and what they are used for [here]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/attributes.html).

A given Istio deployment has a fixed vocabulary of attributes that it understands. The specific vocabulary is
determined by the set of attribute producers being used in the deployment. The primary attribute producer in Istio
is Envoy, although Mixer and services can also introduce attributes.

## Standard Istio attribute vocabulary

The table below shows the set of canonical attributes and their respective types. Most Istio
deployments will have agents (Envoy or Mixer adapters) that produce these attributes.

| Name | Type | Description | Kubernetes Example |
|------|------|-------------|--------------------|
| source.ip | ip_address | Client IP address. | 10.0.0.117 |
| source.service | string | The fully qualified name of the service that the client belongs to. | redis-master.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local |
| source.name | string | The short name part of the source service. | redis-master |
| source.namespace | string | The namespace part of the source service. | my-namespace |
| source.domain | string | The domain suffix part of the source service, excluding the name and the namespace. | svc.cluster.local |
| source.uid | string | Platform-specific unique identifier for the client instance of the source service. | kubernetes://redis-master-2353460263-1ecey.my-namespace |
| source.labels | map[string, string] | A map of key-value pairs attached to the client instance. | version => v1 |
| source.user | string | The identity of the immediate sender of the request, authenticated by mTLS. | service-account-foo |
| destination.ip | ip_address | Server IP address. | 10.0.0.104 |
| destination.port | int64 | The recipient port on the server IP address. | 8080 |
| destination.service | string | The fully qualified name of the service that the server belongs to. | my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster.local |
| destination.name | string | The short name part of the destination service. | my-svc |
| destination.namespace | string | The namespace part of the destination service. | my-namespace |
| destination.domain | string | The domain suffix part of the destination service, excluding the name and the namespace. | svc.cluster.local |
| destination.uid | string | Platform-specific unique identifier for the server instance of the destination service. | kubernetes://my-svc-234443-5sffe.my-namespace |
| destination.labels | map[string, string] | A map of key-value pairs attached to the server instance. | version => v2 |
| destination.user | string | The user running the destination application. | service-account |
| request.headers | map[string, string] | HTTP request headers. | |
| request.id | string | An ID for the request with statistically low probability of collision. | |
| request.path | string | The HTTP URL path including query string | |
| request.host | string | HTTP/1.x host header or HTTP/2 authority header. | redis-master:3337 |
| request.method | string | The HTTP method. | |
| request.reason | string | The request reason used by auditing systems. | |
| request.referer | string | The HTTP referer header. | |
| request.scheme | string | URI Scheme of the request | |
| request.size | int64 | Size of the request in bytes. For HTTP requests this is equivalent to the Content-Length header. | |
| request.time | timestamp | The timestamp when the destination receives the request. This should be equivalent to Firebase "now". | |
| request.useragent | string | The HTTP User-Agent header. | |
| response.headers | map[string, string] | HTTP response headers. | |
| response.size | int64 | Size of the response body in bytes | |
| response.time | timestamp | The timestamp when the destination produced the response. | |
| response.duration | duration | The amount of time the response took to generate. | |
| response.code | int64 | The response's HTTP status code | |
