content/docs/setup/kubernetes/getting-started/index.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Download and install Istio.
weight: 5
skip_toc: true
keywords: [kubernetes]
---

If you’re new to Istio and just want to try it out, the quickest way to get started is
by downloading and installing Istio's built-in **demo** configuration.
Istio can also be installed and customized in many other ways, depending on your platform and intended use.
Check out our [general installation instructions](/docs/setup/) for details.

To get started, proceed as follows:

1. [Setup your platform](/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/)
1. [Download the Istio release](/docs/setup/kubernetes/#downloading-the-release)
1. [Follow the quick-start installation instructions](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/kubernetes)

Once you've installed Istio, a good way to start evaluating Istio's features is using our
[Bookinfo sample application](/docs/examples/bookinfo/).
You can use this sample to experiment with Istio’s features for traffic routing,
fault injection, rate limiting, etc..

1. [Deploy the Bookinfo sample](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#if-you-are-running-on-kubernetes)
1. Explore various [Istio tasks](/docs/tasks/), depending on your interest.
    The following tasks are a good start for beginners:
    * [Request routing](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-routing/)
    * [Fault injection](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/fault-injection/)
    * [Traffic shifting](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/traffic-shifting/)
    * [Querying metrics](/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics/querying-metrics/)
    * [Visualizing metrics](/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics/using-istio-dashboard/)
    * [Collecting logs](/docs/tasks/telemetry/logs/collecting-logs/)
    * [Rate limiting](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limiting/)
    * [Ingress gateways](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/)
    * [Accessing external services](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-control/)
    * [Visualizing your mesh](/docs/tasks/telemetry/kiali/)

After that, you will have a pretty good understanding of Istio's basic functionality and can then
proceed to explore Istio's many other tasks or, even better, start to deploy your own applications.
If you do continue to use Istio, we look forward to hearing from you.

Commit message:

Improve the flow and language of the Getting started doc. (#4425)
* Fix the flow and language of the Getting started doc.

Signed-off-by: rcaballeromx <grca@google.com>

* Add cross-reference on the k8s install guide.

Signed-off-by: rcaballeromx <grca@google.com>

* Rework concluding paragraph to clarify timeline.

Signed-off-by: rcaballeromx <grca@google.com>

* Move cross-reference to landing page.

Signed-off-by: rcaballeromx <grca@google.com>

content/docs/setup/kubernetes/getting-started/index.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Download, install, and try out Istio.
weight: 5
skip_toc: true
keywords: [getting-started, install, bookinfo, quick-start, kubernetes]
---

This guide lets you try out Istio quickly and it's the ideal starting
point if you are new to the project. To get started, download and install
Istio's built-in **demo** configuration:

1. [Setup your platform](/docs/setup/kubernetes/platform-setup/)
1. [Download the Istio release](/docs/setup/kubernetes/#downloading-the-release)
1. [Follow the quick-start installation instructions](/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/kubernetes)

With Istio installed, you can [deploy the Bookinfo sample](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#if-you-are-running-on-kubernetes)
and evaluate Istio's features for traffic routing, fault injection, rate
limiting, etc. Explore the various [Istio tasks](/docs/tasks/), and try out the
tasks that interest you. If you are not sure where to begin, the following
tasks are a good place to start:

- [Request routing](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-routing/)
- [Fault injection](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/fault-injection/)
- [Traffic shifting](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/traffic-shifting/)
- [Querying metrics](/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics/querying-metrics/)
- [Visualizing metrics](/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics/using-istio-dashboard/)
- [Collecting logs](/docs/tasks/telemetry/logs/collecting-logs/)
- [Rate limiting](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limiting/)
- [Ingress gateways](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/)
- [Accessing external services](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-control/)
- [Visualizing your mesh](/docs/tasks/telemetry/kiali/)

The tasks above provide a good basic understanding of Istio's features but,
explore more [tasks](/docs/tasks/) depending on what interests you. Before you
install and customize Istio to fit your platform and intended use, check out
our [general installation instructions](/docs/setup/) for details.

The next step is to deploy your own applications.

As you continue to use Istio, we look forward to hearing from you and welcoming
you to our [community](/about/community/join/).
