content/docs/examples/bookinfo/index.md, before:

---
title: Bookinfo Application
description: Deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used to demonstrate various Istio features.
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /docs/samples/bookinfo.html
    - /docs/guides/bookinfo/index.html
---

This example deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used
to demonstrate various Istio features. The application displays information about a
book, similar to a single catalog entry of an online book store. Displayed
on the page is a description of the book, book details (ISBN, number of
pages, and so on), and a few book reviews.

The Bookinfo application is broken into four separate microservices:

* *productpage*. The productpage microservice calls the *details* and *reviews* microservices to populate the page.
* *details*. The details microservice contains book information.
* *reviews*. The reviews microservice contains book reviews. It also calls the *ratings* microservice.
* *ratings*. The ratings microservice contains book ranking information that accompanies a book review.

There are 3 versions of the reviews microservice:

* Version v1 doesn't call the ratings service.
* Version v2 calls the ratings service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
* Version v3 calls the ratings service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

The end-to-end architecture of the application is shown below.

{{< image width="80%" ratio="68.52%"
    link="./noistio.svg"
    caption="Bookinfo Application without Istio"
    >}}

This application is polyglot, i.e., the microservices are written in different languages.
It’s worth noting that these services have no dependencies on Istio, but make an interesting
service mesh example, particularly because of the multitude of services, languages and versions
for the reviews service.

## Before you begin

If you haven't already done so, setup Istio by following the instructions
corresponding to your platform [installation guide](/docs/setup/).

## Deploying the application

To run the sample with Istio requires no changes to the
application itself. Instead, we simply need to configure and run the services in an
Istio-enabled environment, with Envoy sidecars injected along side each service.
The needed commands and configuration vary depending on the runtime environment
although in all cases the resulting deployment will look like this:

{{< image width="80%" ratio="59.08%"
    link="./withistio.svg"
    caption="Bookinfo Application"
    >}}

All of the microservices will be packaged with an Envoy sidecar that intercepts incoming
and outgoing calls for the services, providing the hooks needed to externally control,
via the Istio control plane, routing, telemetry collection, and policy enforcement
for the application as a whole.

To start the application, follow the instructions below corresponding to your Istio runtime environment.

### If you are running on Kubernetes

> If you use GKE, please ensure your cluster has at least 4 standard GKE nodes. If you use Minikube, please ensure you have at least 4GB RAM.

1. Change directory to the root of the Istio installation directory.

1.  Bring up the application containers:

    *   If you are using [manual sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#manual-sidecar-injection),
        use the following command

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@)
        {{< /text >}}

        The `istioctl kube-inject` command is used to manually modify the `bookinfo.yaml`
        file before creating the deployments as documented [here](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-kube-inject).

    *   If you are using a cluster with
        [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)
        enabled, label the `default` namespace with `istio-injection=enabled`

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
        {{< /text >}}

        Then simply deploy the services using `kubectl`

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@
        {{< /text >}}

    Either of the above commands launches all four microservices as illustrated in the above diagram.
    All 3 versions of the reviews service, v1, v2, and v3, are started.

    > In a realistic deployment, new versions of a microservice are deployed
    over time instead of deploying all versions simultaneously.

1.  Confirm all services and pods are correctly defined and running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get services
    NAME                       CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
    details                    10.0.0.31    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    kubernetes                 10.0.0.1     <none>        443/TCP              7d
    productpage                10.0.0.120   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    ratings                    10.0.0.15    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    reviews                    10.0.0.170   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    {{< /text >}}

    and

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-1520924117-48z17                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    productpage-v1-560495357-jk1lz              2/2       Running   0          6m
    ratings-v1-734492171-rnr5l                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v1-874083890-f0qf0                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v2-1343845940-b34q5                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v3-1813607990-8ch52                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    {{< /text >}}

#### Determining the ingress IP and port

Now that the Bookinfo services are up and running, you need to make the application accessible from outside of your
Kubernetes cluster, e.g., from a browser. An [Istio Gateway](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways)
is used for this purpose.

> Note that the `istioctl` (the Istio CLI) is used in the following commands, instead of `kubectl`. This is because the Kubernetes application is now deployed and the following commands are managing Istio-specific configuration. In a Kubernetes environment, you can replace `istioctl` with `kubectl` if you prefer to stick to one CLI, however, `istioctl` does provide significantly better output and is recommended.

1.  Define the ingress gateway for the application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm the gateway has been created:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl get gateway
    GATEWAY NAME       HOSTS     NAMESPACE   AGE
    bookinfo-gateway   *         default     2d
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Follow [these instructions](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports) to set the `INGRESS_HOST` and `INGRESS_PORT` variables for accessing the gateway. Return here, when they are set.

1.  Set `GATEWAY_URL`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Proceed to [Confirm the app is running](#confirm-the-app-is-running), below.

### If you are running on Docker with Consul

1.  Change directory to the root of the Istio installation directory.

1.  Bring up the application containers.

    To test with Consul, run the following commands:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker-compose -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/bookinfo.yaml@ up -d
    $ docker-compose -f samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/bookinfo.sidecars.yaml up -d
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm that all docker containers are running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker ps -a
    {{< /text >}}

    > If the Istio Pilot container terminates, re-run the command from the previous step.

1.  Set `GATEWAY_URL`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=localhost:9081
    {{< /text >}}

## Confirm the app is running

To confirm that the Bookinfo application is running, run the following `curl` command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ curl -o /dev/null -s -w "%{http_code}\n" http://${GATEWAY_URL}/productpage
200
{{< /text >}}

You can also point your browser to `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`
to view the Bookinfo web page. If you refresh the page several times, you should
see different versions of reviews shown in productpage, presented in a round robin style (red
stars, black stars, no stars), since we haven't yet used Istio to control the
version routing.

## Apply default destination rules

Before you can use Istio to control the bookinfo version routing, you need to define the available
versions, called *subsets*, in destination rules.

Run the following command to create default destination rules for the bookinfo services:

* If you did **not** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

* If you **did** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all-mtls.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

Wait a few seconds for the destination rules to propagate.

You can display the destination rules with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl get destinationrules -o yaml
{{< /text >}}

## What's next

You can now use this sample to experiment with Istio's features for
traffic routing, fault injection, rate limiting, etc.
To proceed, refer to one or more of the [Istio Examples](/docs/examples),
depending on your interest. [Intelligent Routing](/docs/examples/intelligent-routing/)
is a good place to start for beginners.

## Cleanup

When you're finished experimenting with the Bookinfo sample, you can
uninstall and clean it up using the following instructions.

### Uninstall from Kubernetes environment

1.  Delete the routing rules and terminate the application pods

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/cleanup.sh@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm shutdown

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl get virtualservices   #-- there should be no virtual services
    $ istioctl get destinationrules  #-- there should be no destination rules
    $ istioctl get gateway           #-- there should be no gateway
    $ kubectl get pods               #-- the Bookinfo pods should be deleted
    {{< /text >}}

### Uninstall from Docker environment

1.  Delete the routing rules and application containers

    In a Consul setup, run the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ @samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/cleanup.sh@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm cleanup

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl get virtualservices   #-- there should be no more routing rules
    $ docker ps -a                   #-- the Bookinfo containers should be deleted
    {{< /text >}}

Commit message:

Fix bookinfo consul instructions (#1946)
* Fix bookinfo consul instructions

* fix lint errors

* fix spelling error

content/docs/examples/bookinfo/index.md, after:

---
title: Bookinfo Application
description: Deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used to demonstrate various Istio features.
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /docs/samples/bookinfo.html
    - /docs/guides/bookinfo/index.html
---

This example deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used
to demonstrate various Istio features. The application displays information about a
book, similar to a single catalog entry of an online book store. Displayed
on the page is a description of the book, book details (ISBN, number of
pages, and so on), and a few book reviews.

The Bookinfo application is broken into four separate microservices:

* *productpage*. The productpage microservice calls the *details* and *reviews* microservices to populate the page.
* *details*. The details microservice contains book information.
* *reviews*. The reviews microservice contains book reviews. It also calls the *ratings* microservice.
* *ratings*. The ratings microservice contains book ranking information that accompanies a book review.

There are 3 versions of the reviews microservice:

* Version v1 doesn't call the ratings service.
* Version v2 calls the ratings service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
* Version v3 calls the ratings service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

The end-to-end architecture of the application is shown below.

{{< image width="80%" ratio="68.52%"
    link="./noistio.svg"
    caption="Bookinfo Application without Istio"
    >}}

This application is polyglot, i.e., the microservices are written in different languages.
It’s worth noting that these services have no dependencies on Istio, but make an interesting
service mesh example, particularly because of the multitude of services, languages and versions
for the reviews service.

## Before you begin

If you haven't already done so, setup Istio by following the instructions
corresponding to your platform [installation guide](/docs/setup/).

## Deploying the application

To run the sample with Istio requires no changes to the
application itself. Instead, we simply need to configure and run the services in an
Istio-enabled environment, with Envoy sidecars injected along side each service.
The needed commands and configuration vary depending on the runtime environment
although in all cases the resulting deployment will look like this:

{{< image width="80%" ratio="59.08%"
    link="./withistio.svg"
    caption="Bookinfo Application"
    >}}

All of the microservices will be packaged with an Envoy sidecar that intercepts incoming
and outgoing calls for the services, providing the hooks needed to externally control,
via the Istio control plane, routing, telemetry collection, and policy enforcement
for the application as a whole.

To start the application, follow the instructions corresponding to your Istio runtime environment.

* [If you are running on Kubernetes](#if-you-are-running-on-kubernetes)
* [If you are running on Docker with Consul](#if-you-are-running-on-docker-with-consul)

### If you are running on Kubernetes

> If you use GKE, please ensure your cluster has at least 4 standard GKE nodes. If you use Minikube, please ensure you have at least 4GB RAM.

1. Change directory to the root of the Istio installation directory.

1.  Bring up the application containers:

    *   If you are using [manual sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#manual-sidecar-injection),
        use the following command

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@)
        {{< /text >}}

        The `istioctl kube-inject` command is used to manually modify the `bookinfo.yaml`
        file before creating the deployments as documented [here](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-kube-inject).

    *   If you are using a cluster with
        [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)
        enabled, label the `default` namespace with `istio-injection=enabled`

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
        {{< /text >}}

        Then simply deploy the services using `kubectl`

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@
        {{< /text >}}

    Either of the above commands launches all four microservices as illustrated in the above diagram.
    All 3 versions of the reviews service, v1, v2, and v3, are started.

    > In a realistic deployment, new versions of a microservice are deployed
    over time instead of deploying all versions simultaneously.

1.  Confirm all services and pods are correctly defined and running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get services
    NAME                       CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
    details                    10.0.0.31    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    kubernetes                 10.0.0.1     <none>        443/TCP              7d
    productpage                10.0.0.120   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    ratings                    10.0.0.15    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    reviews                    10.0.0.170   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    {{< /text >}}

    and

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-1520924117-48z17                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    productpage-v1-560495357-jk1lz              2/2       Running   0          6m
    ratings-v1-734492171-rnr5l                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v1-874083890-f0qf0                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v2-1343845940-b34q5                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v3-1813607990-8ch52                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    {{< /text >}}

#### Determining the ingress IP and port

Now that the Bookinfo services are up and running, you need to make the application accessible from outside of your
Kubernetes cluster, e.g., from a browser. An [Istio Gateway](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways)
is used for this purpose.

> Note that the `istioctl` (the Istio CLI) is used in the following commands, instead of `kubectl`. This is because the Kubernetes application is now deployed and the following commands are managing Istio-specific configuration. In a Kubernetes environment, you can replace `istioctl` with `kubectl` if you prefer to stick to one CLI, however, `istioctl` does provide significantly better output and is recommended.

1.  Define the ingress gateway for the application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm the gateway has been created:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl get gateway
    GATEWAY NAME       HOSTS     NAMESPACE   AGE
    bookinfo-gateway   *         default     2d
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Follow [these instructions](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports) to set the `INGRESS_HOST` and `INGRESS_PORT` variables for accessing the gateway. Return here, when they are set.

1.  Set `GATEWAY_URL`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Proceed to [Confirm the app is running](#confirm-the-app-is-running), below.

### If you are running on Docker with Consul

1.  Change directory to the root of the Istio installation directory.

1.  Bring up the application containers.

    To test with Consul, run the following commands:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker-compose -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/bookinfo.yaml@ up -d
    $ docker-compose -f samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/bookinfo.sidecars.yaml up -d
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm that all docker containers are running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ docker ps -a
    {{< /text >}}

    > If the Istio Pilot container terminates, re-run the command from the previous step.

1.  Set `GATEWAY_URL`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=localhost:9081
    {{< /text >}}

1.  __Note for Consul users:__ In the following instructions, and when performing any follow-on routing tasks, the yaml files
    in `samples/bookinfo/networking` will not work due to an issue with the current implementation of the default subdomain
    for short service host names. For now, you need to use the corresponding yaml files in `samples/bookinfo/platform/consul`.
    For example, replace `samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all.yaml` with
    `samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/destination-rule-all.yaml` in the `istioctl create` command, below.

## Confirm the app is running

To confirm that the Bookinfo application is running, run the following `curl` command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ curl -o /dev/null -s -w "%{http_code}\n" http://${GATEWAY_URL}/productpage
200
{{< /text >}}

You can also point your browser to `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`
to view the Bookinfo web page. If you refresh the page several times, you should
see different versions of reviews shown in productpage, presented in a round robin style (red
stars, black stars, no stars), since we haven't yet used Istio to control the
version routing.

## Apply default destination rules

Before you can use Istio to control the bookinfo version routing, you need to define the available
versions, called *subsets*, in destination rules.

Run the following command to create default destination rules for the bookinfo services:

* If you did **not** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

* If you **did** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all-mtls.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

Wait a few seconds for the destination rules to propagate.

You can display the destination rules with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl get destinationrules -o yaml
{{< /text >}}

## What's next

You can now use this sample to experiment with Istio's features for
traffic routing, fault injection, rate limiting, etc.
To proceed, refer to one or more of the [Istio Examples](/docs/examples),
depending on your interest. [Intelligent Routing](/docs/examples/intelligent-routing/)
is a good place to start for beginners.

## Cleanup

When you're finished experimenting with the Bookinfo sample, uninstall and clean
it up using the following instructions corresponding to your Istio runtime environment.

### Uninstall from Kubernetes environment

1.  Delete the routing rules and terminate the application pods

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/cleanup.sh@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm shutdown

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl get virtualservices   #-- there should be no virtual services
    $ istioctl get destinationrules  #-- there should be no destination rules
    $ istioctl get gateway           #-- there should be no gateway
    $ kubectl get pods               #-- the Bookinfo pods should be deleted
    {{< /text >}}

### Uninstall from Docker with Consul environment

1.  Delete the routing rules and application containers

    In a Consul setup, run the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ @samples/bookinfo/platform/consul/cleanup.sh@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm cleanup

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl get virtualservices   #-- there should be no more routing rules
    $ docker ps -a                   #-- the Bookinfo containers should be deleted
    {{< /text >}}
