content/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/index.md, before:

---
title: What is Istio?
description: Introduces Istio, the problems it solves, its high-level architecture and design goals.
weight: 15
aliases:
    - /docs/concepts/what-is-istio/overview
    - /docs/concepts/what-is-istio/goals
    - /about/intro
---

Istio is an open platform to connect, manage, and secure microservices.

Istio provides an easy way to create a network of deployed services with load
balancing, service-to-service authentication, monitoring, and more, without
requiring any changes in service code. You add Istio support to services by
deploying a special sidecar proxy throughout your environment that intercepts
all network communication between microservices, configured and managed using
Istio's control plane functionality.

* Automatic load balancing for HTTP, gRPC, WebSocket, and TCP traffic.

* Fine-grained control of traffic behavior with rich routing rules,
retries, failovers, and fault injection.

* A pluggable policy layer and configuration API supporting access controls,
rate limits and quotas.

* Automatic metrics, logs, and traces for all traffic within a cluster,
including cluster ingress and egress.

* Secure service-to-service communication in a cluster with strong
identity-based authentication and authorization.

You can deploy Istio on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) or on
[Nomad](https://nomadproject.io) with [Consul](https://www.consul.io/). We
plan to add support for additional platforms such as
[Cloud Foundry](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/),
and [Apache Mesos](https://mesos.apache.org/) in the near future.

Istio currently supports:

* Service deployment on Kubernetes
* Services registered with Consul
* Services running on individual virtual machines.

## Why use Istio?

Istio addresses the challenges developers and operators face as monolithic
applications transition towards a distributed microservice architecture.

The term **service mesh** is used to describe the network of microservices that
make up such applications and the interactions between them. As a service mesh
grows in size and complexity, it can become harder to understand and manage.
Its requirements can include discovery, load balancing, failure recovery,
metrics, and monitoring. A service mesh often has more complex operational
requirements such as A/B testing, canary releases, rate limiting, access
control, and end-to-end authentication.

Istio provides behavioral insights and operational control over the service
mesh as a whole offering a complete solution to satisfy the diverse
requirements of microservice applications.

Istio provides a number of key capabilities uniformly across a network of
services:

* **Traffic Management**: Control the flow of traffic and API calls between
  services, make calls more reliable, and make the network more robust in the
  face of adverse conditions.

* **Service Identity and Security**: Provide services in the mesh with a
  verifiable identity and provide the ability to protect service traffic as it
  flows over networks of varying degrees of trustability.

* **Policy Enforcement**: Apply organizational policy to the interaction
  between services, ensure access policies are enforced and that resources are
  fairly distributed among consumers. To make policy changes, you change the
  configuration of the mesh and don't need to change application code.

* **Telemetry**: Gain understanding of the dependencies between services and
  the nature and flow of traffic between them, providing the ability to quickly
  identify issues.

In addition to these behaviors, Istio is designed for extensibility to meet
diverse deployment needs:

* **Platform Support**: Istio is designed to run in a variety of environments
  including ones that span Cloud, on-premise, Kubernetes, Mesos, etc. We’re
  initially focused on Kubernetes, but are working to support other
  environments soon.

* **Integration and Customization**: The policy enforcement component can be
  extended and customized to integrate with existing solutions for ACLs,
  logging, monitoring, quotas, auditing, and more.

These capabilities greatly decrease the coupling between application code, the
underlying platform, and policy. This decreased coupling makes services easier
to implement and makes it simpler for operators to move application deployments
between environments or to new policy schemes. Applications become inherently
more portable as a result.

## Architecture

An Istio service mesh is logically split into a **data plane** and a **control
plane**.

* The **data plane** is composed of a set of intelligent proxies
  ([Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)) deployed as sidecars. These proxies
  mediate and control all network communication between microservices along
  with [Mixer](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/), a general-purpose
  policy and telemetry hub.

* The **control plane** manages and configures the proxies to route traffic.
  Additionally, the control plane configures Mixers to enforce policies and
  collect telemetry.

The following diagram shows the different components that make up each plane:

{{< image width="80%" ratio="56.25%"
    link="./arch.svg"
    alt="The overall architecture of an Istio-based application."
    caption="Istio Architecture"
    >}}

### Envoy

Istio uses an extended version of the
[Envoy](https://envoyproxy.github.io/envoy/) proxy. Envoy is a high-performance
proxy developed in C++ to mediate all inbound and outbound traffic for all
services in the service mesh. Istio leverages Envoy’s many built-in features,
for example:

* Dynamic service discovery
* Load balancing
* TLS termination
* HTTP/2 and gRPC proxies
* Circuit breakers
* Health checks
* Staged rollouts with %-based traffic split
* Fault injection
* Rich metrics

Envoy is deployed as a **sidecar** to the relevant service in the same
Kubernetes pod. This deployment allows Istio to extract a wealth of signals
about traffic behavior as
[attributes](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/#attributes). Istio can, in
turn, use these attributes in [Mixer](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/)
to enforce policy decisions, and send them to monitoring systems to provide
information about the behavior of the entire mesh.

The sidecar proxy model also allows you to add Istio capabilities to an
existing deployment with no need to rearchitect or rewrite code. You can read
more about why we chose this approach in our [Design
Goals](/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#design-goals).

### Mixer

[Mixer](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/) is a platform-independent
component. Mixer enforces access control and usage policies across the service
mesh, and collects telemetry data from the Envoy proxy and other services. The
proxy extracts request level
[attributes](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/#attributes), and sends them
to Mixer for evaluation. You can find more information on this attribute
extraction and policy evaluation in our [Mixer Configuration
documentation](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/#configuration-model).

Mixer includes a flexible plugin model. This model enables Istio to interface
with a variety of host environments and infrastructure backends. Thus, Istio
abstracts the Envoy proxy and Istio-managed services from these details.

### Pilot

[Pilot](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#pilot-and-envoy) provides
service discovery for the Envoy sidecars, traffic management capabilities
for intelligent routing (e.g., A/B tests, canary deployments, etc.),
and resiliency (timeouts, retries, circuit breakers, etc.).

Pilot converts high level routing rules that control traffic behavior into
Envoy-specific configurations, and propagates them to the sidecars at runtime.
Pilot abstracts platform-specific service discovery mechanisms and synthesizes
them into a standard format that any sidecar conforming with the [Envoy data
plane APIs](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api) can consume. This
loose coupling allows Istio to run on multiple environments such as Kubernetes,
Consul, or Nomad, while maintaining the same operator interface for traffic
management.

### Citadel

[Citadel](/docs/concepts/security/) provides strong service-to-service and
end-user authentication with built-in identity and credential management. You
can use Citadel to upgrade unencrypted traffic in the service mesh. Using
Citadel, operators can enforce policies based on service identity rather than
on network controls. Starting from release 0.5, Istio supports [role-based
access control](/docs/concepts/security/rbac/) to control who can access your
services.

## Design Goals

A few key design goals informed Istio’s architecture. These goals are essential
to making the system capable of dealing with services at scale and with high
performance.

* **Maximize Transparency**: To adopt Istio, an operator or developer is
  required to do the minimum amount of work possible to get real value from the
  system. To this end, Istio can automatically inject itself into all the
  network paths between services. Istio uses sidecar proxies to capture traffic
  and, where possible, automatically program the networking layer to route
  traffic through those proxies without any changes to the deployed application
  code. In Kubernetes, the proxies are injected into pods and traffic is
  captured by programming ``iptables`` rules. Once the sidecar proxies are
  injected and traffic routing is programmed, Istio can mediate all traffic.
  This principle also applies to performance. When applying Istio to a
  deployment, operators see a minimal increase in resource costs for the
  functionality being provided. Components and APIs must all be designed with
  performance and scale in mind.

* **Incrementality**: As operators and developers become more dependent on the
  functionality that Istio provides, the system must grow with their needs.
  While we continue to add new features, the greatest need is the ability to
  extend the policy system, to integrate with other sources of policy and
  control, and to propagate signals about mesh behavior to other systems for
  analysis. The policy runtime supports a standard extension mechanism for
  plugging in other services. In addition, it allows for the extension of its
  vocabulary to allow policies to be enforced based on new signals that the
  mesh produces.

* **Portability**: The ecosystem in which Istio is used varies along many
  dimensions. Istio must run on any cloud or on-premises environment with
  minimal effort. The task of porting Istio-based services to new environments
  must be trivial. Using Istio, you are able to operate a single service
  deployed into multiple environments. For example, you can deploy on multiple
  clouds for redundancy.

* **Policy Uniformity**: The application of policy to API calls between
  services provides a great deal of control over mesh behavior. However, it can
  be equally important to apply policies to resources which are not necessarily
  expressed at the API level. For example, applying a quota to the amount of
  CPU consumed by an ML training task is more useful than applying a quota to
  the call which initiated the work. To this end, Istio maintains the policy
  system as a distinct service with its own API rather than the policy system
  being baked into the proxy sidecar, allowing services to directly integrate
  with it as needed.

Commit message:

Update Istio Authorization Concept. (#1807)
* Update Istio Authorization Concept.

* Fix lint errors and address comments.

* Addressed comments.

* Changed title from "Istio Authorization" to "Authorization".

* Fixed links.

* Addressed comments.

* Addressed comments.

* Fix lint errors.

* Undo unintended changes in .spelling.

content/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/index.md, after:

---
title: What is Istio?
description: Introduces Istio, the problems it solves, its high-level architecture and design goals.
weight: 15
aliases:
    - /docs/concepts/what-is-istio/overview
    - /docs/concepts/what-is-istio/goals
    - /about/intro
---

Istio is an open platform to connect, manage, and secure microservices.

Istio provides an easy way to create a network of deployed services with load
balancing, service-to-service authentication, monitoring, and more, without
requiring any changes in service code. You add Istio support to services by
deploying a special sidecar proxy throughout your environment that intercepts
all network communication between microservices, configured and managed using
Istio's control plane functionality.

* Automatic load balancing for HTTP, gRPC, WebSocket, and TCP traffic.

* Fine-grained control of traffic behavior with rich routing rules,
retries, failovers, and fault injection.

* A pluggable policy layer and configuration API supporting access controls,
rate limits and quotas.

* Automatic metrics, logs, and traces for all traffic within a cluster,
including cluster ingress and egress.

* Secure service-to-service communication in a cluster with strong
identity-based authentication and authorization.

You can deploy Istio on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) or on
[Nomad](https://nomadproject.io) with [Consul](https://www.consul.io/). We
plan to add support for additional platforms such as
[Cloud Foundry](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/),
and [Apache Mesos](https://mesos.apache.org/) in the near future.

Istio currently supports:

* Service deployment on Kubernetes
* Services registered with Consul
* Services running on individual virtual machines.

## Why use Istio?

Istio addresses the challenges developers and operators face as monolithic
applications transition towards a distributed microservice architecture.

The term **service mesh** is used to describe the network of microservices that
make up such applications and the interactions between them. As a service mesh
grows in size and complexity, it can become harder to understand and manage.
Its requirements can include discovery, load balancing, failure recovery,
metrics, and monitoring. A service mesh often has more complex operational
requirements such as A/B testing, canary releases, rate limiting, access
control, and end-to-end authentication.

Istio provides behavioral insights and operational control over the service
mesh as a whole offering a complete solution to satisfy the diverse
requirements of microservice applications.

Istio provides a number of key capabilities uniformly across a network of
services:

* **Traffic Management**: Control the flow of traffic and API calls between
  services, make calls more reliable, and make the network more robust in the
  face of adverse conditions.

* **Service Identity and Security**: Provide services in the mesh with a
  verifiable identity and provide the ability to protect service traffic as it
  flows over networks of varying degrees of trustability.

* **Policy Enforcement**: Apply organizational policy to the interaction
  between services, ensure access policies are enforced and that resources are
  fairly distributed among consumers. To make policy changes, you change the
  configuration of the mesh and don't need to change application code.

* **Telemetry**: Gain understanding of the dependencies between services and
  the nature and flow of traffic between them, providing the ability to quickly
  identify issues.

In addition to these behaviors, Istio is designed for extensibility to meet
diverse deployment needs:

* **Platform Support**: Istio is designed to run in a variety of environments
  including ones that span Cloud, on-premise, Kubernetes, Mesos, etc. We’re
  initially focused on Kubernetes, but are working to support other
  environments soon.

* **Integration and Customization**: The policy enforcement component can be
  extended and customized to integrate with existing solutions for ACLs,
  logging, monitoring, quotas, auditing, and more.

These capabilities greatly decrease the coupling between application code, the
underlying platform, and policy. This decreased coupling makes services easier
to implement and makes it simpler for operators to move application deployments
between environments or to new policy schemes. Applications become inherently
more portable as a result.

## Architecture

An Istio service mesh is logically split into a **data plane** and a **control
plane**.

* The **data plane** is composed of a set of intelligent proxies
  ([Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)) deployed as sidecars. These proxies
  mediate and control all network communication between microservices along
  with [Mixer](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/), a general-purpose
  policy and telemetry hub.

* The **control plane** manages and configures the proxies to route traffic.
  Additionally, the control plane configures Mixers to enforce policies and
  collect telemetry.

The following diagram shows the different components that make up each plane:

{{< image width="80%" ratio="56.25%"
    link="./arch.svg"
    alt="The overall architecture of an Istio-based application."
    caption="Istio Architecture"
    >}}

### Envoy

Istio uses an extended version of the
[Envoy](https://envoyproxy.github.io/envoy/) proxy. Envoy is a high-performance
proxy developed in C++ to mediate all inbound and outbound traffic for all
services in the service mesh. Istio leverages Envoy’s many built-in features,
for example:

* Dynamic service discovery
* Load balancing
* TLS termination
* HTTP/2 and gRPC proxies
* Circuit breakers
* Health checks
* Staged rollouts with %-based traffic split
* Fault injection
* Rich metrics

Envoy is deployed as a **sidecar** to the relevant service in the same
Kubernetes pod. This deployment allows Istio to extract a wealth of signals
about traffic behavior as
[attributes](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/#attributes). Istio can, in
turn, use these attributes in [Mixer](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/)
to enforce policy decisions, and send them to monitoring systems to provide
information about the behavior of the entire mesh.

The sidecar proxy model also allows you to add Istio capabilities to an
existing deployment with no need to rearchitect or rewrite code. You can read
more about why we chose this approach in our [Design
Goals](/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#design-goals).

### Mixer

[Mixer](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/) is a platform-independent
component. Mixer enforces access control and usage policies across the service
mesh, and collects telemetry data from the Envoy proxy and other services. The
proxy extracts request level
[attributes](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/#attributes), and sends them
to Mixer for evaluation. You can find more information on this attribute
extraction and policy evaluation in our [Mixer Configuration
documentation](/docs/concepts/policies-and-telemetry/#configuration-model).

Mixer includes a flexible plugin model. This model enables Istio to interface
with a variety of host environments and infrastructure backends. Thus, Istio
abstracts the Envoy proxy and Istio-managed services from these details.

### Pilot

[Pilot](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#pilot-and-envoy) provides
service discovery for the Envoy sidecars, traffic management capabilities
for intelligent routing (e.g., A/B tests, canary deployments, etc.),
and resiliency (timeouts, retries, circuit breakers, etc.).

Pilot converts high level routing rules that control traffic behavior into
Envoy-specific configurations, and propagates them to the sidecars at runtime.
Pilot abstracts platform-specific service discovery mechanisms and synthesizes
them into a standard format that any sidecar conforming with the [Envoy data
plane APIs](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api) can consume. This
loose coupling allows Istio to run on multiple environments such as Kubernetes,
Consul, or Nomad, while maintaining the same operator interface for traffic
management.

### Citadel

[Citadel](/docs/concepts/security/) provides strong service-to-service and
end-user authentication with built-in identity and credential management. You
can use Citadel to upgrade unencrypted traffic in the service mesh. Using
Citadel, operators can enforce policies based on service identity rather than
on network controls. Starting from release 0.5, you can use
[Istio's authorization feature](/docs/concepts/security/#authorization) to control
who can access your services.

## Design Goals

A few key design goals informed Istio’s architecture. These goals are essential
to making the system capable of dealing with services at scale and with high
performance.

* **Maximize Transparency**: To adopt Istio, an operator or developer is
  required to do the minimum amount of work possible to get real value from the
  system. To this end, Istio can automatically inject itself into all the
  network paths between services. Istio uses sidecar proxies to capture traffic
  and, where possible, automatically program the networking layer to route
  traffic through those proxies without any changes to the deployed application
  code. In Kubernetes, the proxies are injected into pods and traffic is
  captured by programming ``iptables`` rules. Once the sidecar proxies are
  injected and traffic routing is programmed, Istio can mediate all traffic.
  This principle also applies to performance. When applying Istio to a
  deployment, operators see a minimal increase in resource costs for the
  functionality being provided. Components and APIs must all be designed with
  performance and scale in mind.

* **Incrementality**: As operators and developers become more dependent on the
  functionality that Istio provides, the system must grow with their needs.
  While we continue to add new features, the greatest need is the ability to
  extend the policy system, to integrate with other sources of policy and
  control, and to propagate signals about mesh behavior to other systems for
  analysis. The policy runtime supports a standard extension mechanism for
  plugging in other services. In addition, it allows for the extension of its
  vocabulary to allow policies to be enforced based on new signals that the
  mesh produces.

* **Portability**: The ecosystem in which Istio is used varies along many
  dimensions. Istio must run on any cloud or on-premises environment with
  minimal effort. The task of porting Istio-based services to new environments
  must be trivial. Using Istio, you are able to operate a single service
  deployed into multiple environments. For example, you can deploy on multiple
  clouds for redundancy.

* **Policy Uniformity**: The application of policy to API calls between
  services provides a great deal of control over mesh behavior. However, it can
  be equally important to apply policies to resources which are not necessarily
  expressed at the API level. For example, applying a quota to the amount of
  CPU consumed by an ML training task is more useful than applying a quota to
  the call which initiated the work. To this end, Istio maintains the policy
  system as a distinct service with its own API rather than the policy system
  being baked into the proxy sidecar, allowing services to directly integrate
  with it as needed.
