content/en/docs/examples/bookinfo/index.md, before:

---
title: Bookinfo Application
description: Deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used to demonstrate various Istio features.
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /docs/samples/bookinfo.html
    - /docs/guides/bookinfo/index.html
    - /docs/guides/bookinfo.html
---

This example deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used
to demonstrate various Istio features. The application displays information about a
book, similar to a single catalog entry of an online book store. Displayed
on the page is a description of the book, book details (ISBN, number of
pages, and so on), and a few book reviews.

The Bookinfo application is broken into four separate microservices:

* `productpage`. The `productpage` microservice calls the `details` and `reviews` microservices to populate the page.
* `details`. The `details` microservice contains book information.
* `reviews`. The `reviews` microservice contains book reviews. It also calls the `ratings` microservice.
* `ratings`. The `ratings` microservice contains book ranking information that accompanies a book review.

There are 3 versions of the `reviews` microservice:

* Version v1 doesn't call the `ratings` service.
* Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
* Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

The end-to-end architecture of the application is shown below.

{{< image width="80%" link="./noistio.svg" caption="Bookinfo Application without Istio" >}}

This application is polyglot, i.e., the microservices are written in different languages.
It’s worth noting that these services have no dependencies on Istio, but make an interesting
service mesh example, particularly because of the multitude of services, languages and versions
for the `reviews` service.

## Before you begin

If you haven't already done so, setup Istio by following the instructions
in the [installation guide](/docs/setup/).

## Deploying the application

To run the sample with Istio requires no changes to the
application itself. Instead, you simply need to configure and run the services in an
Istio-enabled environment, with Envoy sidecars injected along side each service.
The resulting deployment will look like this:

{{< image width="80%" link="./withistio.svg" caption="Bookinfo Application" >}}

All of the microservices will be packaged with an Envoy sidecar that intercepts incoming
and outgoing calls for the services, providing the hooks needed to externally control,
via the Istio control plane, routing, telemetry collection, and policy enforcement
for the application as a whole.

### Start the application services

{{< tip >}}
If you use GKE, please ensure your cluster has at least 4 standard GKE nodes. If you use Minikube, please ensure you have at least 4GB RAM.
{{< /tip >}}

1.  Change directory to the root of the Istio installation.

1.  The default Istio installation uses [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection).
    Label the namespace that will host the application with `istio-injection=enabled`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    If you use OpenShift, make sure to give appropriate permissions to service accounts on the namespace as described in [OpenShift setup page](/docs/setup/platform-setup/openshift/#privileged-security-context-constraints-for-application-sidecars).
    {{< /warning >}}

1.  Deploy your application using the `kubectl` command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    If you disabled automatic sidecar injection during installation and rely on [manual sidecar injection]
    (/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#manual-sidecar-injection),
    use the [`istioctl kube-inject`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-kube-inject) command to modify the `bookinfo.yaml`
    file before deploying your application.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@)
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /warning >}}

    The command launches all four services shown in the `bookinfo` application architecture diagram.
    All 3 versions of the reviews service, v1, v2, and v3, are started.

    {{< tip >}}
    In a realistic deployment, new versions of a microservice are deployed
    over time instead of deploying all versions simultaneously.
    {{< /tip >}}

1.  Confirm all services and pods are correctly defined and running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get services
    NAME                       CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
    details                    10.0.0.31    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    kubernetes                 10.0.0.1     <none>        443/TCP              7d
    productpage                10.0.0.120   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    ratings                    10.0.0.15    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    reviews                    10.0.0.170   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    {{< /text >}}

    and

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-1520924117-48z17                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    productpage-v1-560495357-jk1lz              2/2       Running   0          6m
    ratings-v1-734492171-rnr5l                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v1-874083890-f0qf0                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v2-1343845940-b34q5                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v3-1813607990-8ch52                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    {{< /text >}}

1.  To confirm that the Bookinfo application is running, send a request to it by a `curl` command from some pod, for
    example from `ratings`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c ratings -- curl productpage:9080/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    {{< /text >}}

### Determine the ingress IP and port

Now that the Bookinfo services are up and running, you need to make the application accessible from outside of your
Kubernetes cluster, e.g., from a browser. An [Istio Gateway](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways)
is used for this purpose.

1.  Define the ingress gateway for the application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm the gateway has been created:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get gateway
    NAME               AGE
    bookinfo-gateway   32s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Follow [these instructions](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports) to set the `INGRESS_HOST` and `INGRESS_PORT` variables for accessing the gateway. Return here, when they are set.

1.  Set `GATEWAY_URL`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT
    {{< /text >}}

## Confirm the app is accessible from outside the cluster

To confirm that the Bookinfo application is accessible from outside the cluster, run the following `curl` command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ curl -s http://${GATEWAY_URL}/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
<title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
{{< /text >}}

You can also point your browser to `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`
to view the Bookinfo web page. If you refresh the page several times, you should
see different versions of reviews shown in `productpage`, presented in a round robin style (red
stars, black stars, no stars), since we haven't yet used Istio to control the
version routing.

## Apply default destination rules

Before you can use Istio to control the Bookinfo version routing, you need to define the available
versions, called *subsets*, in [destination rules](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#destination-rules).

Run the following command to create default destination rules for the Bookinfo services:

* If you did **not** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< tip >}}
    Choose this option if you are new to Istio and are using the `demo`
    [configuration profile](/docs/setup/additional-setup/config-profiles/).
    {{< /tip >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

* If you **did** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all-mtls.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

Wait a few seconds for the destination rules to propagate.

You can display the destination rules with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get destinationrules -o yaml
{{< /text >}}

## What's next

You can now use this sample to experiment with Istio's features for
traffic routing, fault injection, rate limiting, etc.
To proceed, refer to one or more of the [Istio Tasks](/docs/tasks),
depending on your interest. [Configuring Request Routing](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-routing/)
is a good place to start for beginners.

## Cleanup

When you're finished experimenting with the Bookinfo sample, uninstall and clean
it up using the following instructions:

1.  Delete the routing rules and terminate the application pods

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/cleanup.sh@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm shutdown

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get virtualservices   #-- there should be no virtual services
    $ kubectl get destinationrules  #-- there should be no destination rules
    $ kubectl get gateway           #-- there should be no gateway
    $ kubectl get pods              #-- the Bookinfo pods should be deleted
    {{< /text >}}

Commit message:

Improved Istio Getting Started (#6642)
* Linter error fixes

* Fixed more linter errors

* Linter issue again

* PR feedback

* More PR comments

* Update content/en/docs/setup/getting-started/index.md

Co-Authored-By: Frank Budinsky <frankb@ca.ibm.com>

* Further PR comments

* PR review comments fixed

* Space fix

* More PR comment fixes

* Linter fix

* Linter fix

* More linter issues

* More linter issues2

Co-authored-by: Frank Budinsky <frankb@ca.ibm.com>

content/en/docs/examples/bookinfo/index.md, after:

---
title: Bookinfo Application
description: Deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used to demonstrate various Istio features.
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /docs/samples/bookinfo.html
    - /docs/guides/bookinfo/index.html
    - /docs/guides/bookinfo.html
---

This example deploys a sample application composed of four separate microservices used
to demonstrate various Istio features.

{{< tip >}}
If you installed Istio using the [Getting Started](/docs/setup/getting-started/)
instructions, you already have Bookinfo installed and you can skip these steps.
{{< /tip >}}

The application displays information about a
book, similar to a single catalog entry of an online book store. Displayed
on the page is a description of the book, book details (ISBN, number of
pages, and so on), and a few book reviews.

The Bookinfo application is broken into four separate microservices:

* `productpage`. The `productpage` microservice calls the `details` and `reviews` microservices to populate the page.
* `details`. The `details` microservice contains book information.
* `reviews`. The `reviews` microservice contains book reviews. It also calls the `ratings` microservice.
* `ratings`. The `ratings` microservice contains book ranking information that accompanies a book review.

There are 3 versions of the `reviews` microservice:

* Version v1 doesn't call the `ratings` service.
* Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
* Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

The end-to-end architecture of the application is shown below.

{{< image width="80%" link="./noistio.svg" caption="Bookinfo Application without Istio" >}}

This application is polyglot, i.e., the microservices are written in different languages.
It’s worth noting that these services have no dependencies on Istio, but make an interesting
service mesh example, particularly because of the multitude of services, languages and versions
for the `reviews` service.

## Before you begin

If you haven't already done so, setup Istio by following the instructions
in the [installation guide](/docs/setup/).

## Deploying the application

To run the sample with Istio requires no changes to the
application itself. Instead, you simply need to configure and run the services in an
Istio-enabled environment, with Envoy sidecars injected along side each service.
The resulting deployment will look like this:

{{< image width="80%" link="./withistio.svg" caption="Bookinfo Application" >}}

All of the microservices will be packaged with an Envoy sidecar that intercepts incoming
and outgoing calls for the services, providing the hooks needed to externally control,
via the Istio control plane, routing, telemetry collection, and policy enforcement
for the application as a whole.

### Start the application services

{{< tip >}}
If you use GKE, please ensure your cluster has at least 4 standard GKE nodes. If you use Minikube, please ensure you have at least 4GB RAM.
{{< /tip >}}

1.  Change directory to the root of the Istio installation.

1.  The default Istio installation uses [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection).
    Label the namespace that will host the application with `istio-injection=enabled`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    If you use OpenShift, make sure to give appropriate permissions to service accounts on the namespace as described in [OpenShift setup page](/docs/setup/platform-setup/openshift/#privileged-security-context-constraints-for-application-sidecars).
    {{< /warning >}}

1.  Deploy your application using the `kubectl` command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    If you disabled automatic sidecar injection during installation and rely on [manual sidecar injection]
    (/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#manual-sidecar-injection),
    use the [`istioctl kube-inject`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-kube-inject) command to modify the `bookinfo.yaml`
    file before deploying your application.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml@)
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /warning >}}

    The command launches all four services shown in the `bookinfo` application architecture diagram.
    All 3 versions of the reviews service, v1, v2, and v3, are started.

    {{< tip >}}
    In a realistic deployment, new versions of a microservice are deployed
    over time instead of deploying all versions simultaneously.
    {{< /tip >}}

1.  Confirm all services and pods are correctly defined and running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get services
    NAME                       CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
    details                    10.0.0.31    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    kubernetes                 10.0.0.1     <none>        443/TCP              7d
    productpage                10.0.0.120   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    ratings                    10.0.0.15    <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    reviews                    10.0.0.170   <none>        9080/TCP             6m
    {{< /text >}}

    and

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-1520924117-48z17                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    productpage-v1-560495357-jk1lz              2/2       Running   0          6m
    ratings-v1-734492171-rnr5l                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v1-874083890-f0qf0                  2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v2-1343845940-b34q5                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    reviews-v3-1813607990-8ch52                 2/2       Running   0          6m
    {{< /text >}}

1.  To confirm that the Bookinfo application is running, send a request to it by a `curl` command from some pod, for
    example from `ratings`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c ratings -- curl productpage:9080/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    {{< /text >}}

### Determine the ingress IP and port

Now that the Bookinfo services are up and running, you need to make the application accessible from outside of your
Kubernetes cluster, e.g., from a browser. An [Istio Gateway](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways)
is used for this purpose.

1.  Define the ingress gateway for the application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm the gateway has been created:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get gateway
    NAME               AGE
    bookinfo-gateway   32s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Follow [these instructions](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports) to set the `INGRESS_HOST` and `INGRESS_PORT` variables for accessing the gateway. Return here, when they are set.

1.  Set `GATEWAY_URL`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export GATEWAY_URL=$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT
    {{< /text >}}

## Confirm the app is accessible from outside the cluster

To confirm that the Bookinfo application is accessible from outside the cluster, run the following `curl` command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ curl -s http://${GATEWAY_URL}/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
<title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
{{< /text >}}

You can also point your browser to `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`
to view the Bookinfo web page. If you refresh the page several times, you should
see different versions of reviews shown in `productpage`, presented in a round robin style (red
stars, black stars, no stars), since we haven't yet used Istio to control the
version routing.

## Apply default destination rules

Before you can use Istio to control the Bookinfo version routing, you need to define the available
versions, called *subsets*, in [destination rules](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#destination-rules).

Run the following command to create default destination rules for the Bookinfo services:

* If you did **not** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< tip >}}
    Choose this option if you are new to Istio and are using the `demo`
    [configuration profile](/docs/setup/additional-setup/config-profiles/).
    {{< /tip >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

* If you **did** enable mutual TLS, execute this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all-mtls.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

Wait a few seconds for the destination rules to propagate.

You can display the destination rules with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get destinationrules -o yaml
{{< /text >}}

## What's next

You can now use this sample to experiment with Istio's features for
traffic routing, fault injection, rate limiting, etc.
To proceed, refer to one or more of the [Istio Tasks](/docs/tasks),
depending on your interest. [Configuring Request Routing](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-routing/)
is a good place to start for beginners.

## Cleanup

When you're finished experimenting with the Bookinfo sample, uninstall and clean
it up using the following instructions:

1.  Delete the routing rules and terminate the application pods

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/cleanup.sh@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Confirm shutdown

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get virtualservices   #-- there should be no virtual services
    $ kubectl get destinationrules  #-- there should be no destination rules
    $ kubectl get gateway           #-- there should be no gateway
    $ kubectl get pods              #-- the Bookinfo pods should be deleted
    {{< /text >}}
