content/docs/_index.md, before:

---
title: Welcome
description: Istio documentation home page.
weight: 1
sidebar_multicard: true
---

From here you can learn all about Istio's architecture and how to deploy and use Istio.

- [Concepts](/docs/concepts/). Concepts explain some significant aspect of Istio. This
is where you can learn about what Istio does and how it does it.

- [Setup](/docs/setup/). Setup contains instructions for installing
  the Istio control plane in various environments, as well as instructions
  for installing the sidecar in the application deployment. Quick start
  instructions are available for
  [Kubernetes](/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start/) and
  [Docker Compose w/ Consul](/docs/setup/consul/quick-start/).

- [Tasks](/docs/tasks/). Tasks show you how to do a single directed activity with Istio.

- [Guides](/docs/guides/). Guides are fully working stand-alone examples
intended to highlight a particular set of Istio's features.

- [Reference](/docs/reference/). Detailed exhaustive lists of
command-line options, configuration options, API definitions, and procedures.

In addition, you might find these links interesting:

- The latest Istio monthly release is {{< istio_version >}}: [download {{< istio_version >}}](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases),
[release notes](/about/notes/{{< istio_version >}}/).

- Nostalgic for days gone by? We keep an [archive of the earlier releases' documentation](https://archive.istio.io/).

- We're always looking for help improving our documentation, so please don't hesitate to
[file an issue](https://github.com/istio/istio.github.io/issues/new) if you see some problem.
Or better yet, submit your own [contributions](/about/contribute/editing/) to help
make our docs better.

Commit message:

[0.8] layout and initial content for perf and scalability section (#1076)
* [wip] layout for perf and scalability section

* Some actual content for fortio including embedding result example + scalability page

* iframe border 0

* Minor typos fixed

Still need more content

* Still wip, moved out of concepts

* Still wip; some content and update

* Review feedback from daneyon

* Updates order->weight

Looks like the ordering now is called weight

* Added @ozevren provided section for ubench

and removed latin in other sections too with some early content/pointers

* Remove draft:true so preview shows the page

Even though the content is incomplete

* Add more links and data

* More explanation

* Showcase some more features

* Set ymax and ylog for first histogram

* Making spell check happy

Hopefully, as I can’t seem to run mdspell locally

* Further spell checks

* Adding diagram

* Use BluePerf consistently

* Linters...

* Adding preliminary sizing information

* Spelling/grammar

* Adding latency summary

(Feedback from Louis)

* Rephrase goal and highlight the features you get for cpu cost

* Update scalability page title to include sizing guide

Even if it’s “light” for now

* Move to new location

* Updates for hugo

* Somehow _site was removed from gitignore... fixing

* More merge/gitignore issues

* Put micro benchmark first/before scenarios

and more Hugo removals

* Remove "here" as anchor

Cc @ozevren / from
http://preliminary.istio.io/about/contribute/style-guide/#create-useful-
links

* Make spellchecker happy (Github->GitHub)

* Adding more information about logging on/off and mTLS results

* Review comments

* Switch to approx 10ms

* Hoping to solve linter/spelling

content/docs/_index.md, after:

---
title: Welcome
description: Istio documentation home page.
weight: 1
sidebar_multicard: true
---

From here you can learn all about Istio's architecture and how to deploy and use Istio.

- [Concepts](/docs/concepts/). Concepts explain some significant aspect of Istio. This
is where you can learn about what Istio does and how it does it.

- [Setup](/docs/setup/). Setup contains instructions for installing
  the Istio control plane in various environments, as well as instructions
  for installing the sidecar in the application deployment. Quick start
  instructions are available for
  [Kubernetes](/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start/) and
  [Docker Compose w/ Consul](/docs/setup/consul/quick-start/).

- [Tasks](/docs/tasks/). Tasks show you how to do a single directed activity with Istio.

- [Guides](/docs/guides/). Guides are fully working stand-alone examples
intended to highlight a particular set of Istio's features.

- [Performance and Scalability](/docs/performance-and-scalability/).
Information about Istio's performance and scalability processes and results.

- [Reference](/docs/reference/). Detailed exhaustive lists of
command-line options, configuration options, API definitions, and procedures.

In addition, you might find these links interesting:

- The latest Istio monthly release is {{< istio_version >}}: [download {{< istio_version >}}](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases),
[release notes](/about/notes/{{< istio_version >}}/).

- Nostalgic for days gone by? We keep an [archive of the earlier releases' documentation](https://archive.istio.io/).

- We're always looking for help improving our documentation, so please don't hesitate to
[file an issue](https://github.com/istio/istio.github.io/issues/new) if you see some problem.
Or better yet, submit your own [contributions](/about/contribute/editing/) to help
make our docs better.
