content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/setup-local-computer/index.md, before:

---
title: Setup a Local Computer
overview: Set up your local computer for the tutorial.
weight: 3
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

In this module you prepare your local computer for the tutorial.

1.  On your local computer, create an environment variable to store the name
    of the namespace used when you run the tutorial commands.
    You can use any name, for example `tutorial`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export NAMESPACE=tutorial
    {{< /text >}}

1.  On your local computer, locate the `${NAMESPACE}-user-config.yaml` file you
    created earlier in the tutorial, where `${NAMESPACE}` is the name of your
    namespace. For example `tutorial-user-config.yaml`.

1.  Install [`curl`](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

1.  Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

1.  Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

1.  Install [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

1.  Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable for the `${NAMESPACE}-user-config.yaml`
    configuration file:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export KUBECONFIG=./${NAMESPACE}-user-config.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Verify that the configuration took effect by printing the current namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config view -o jsonpath="{.contexts[?(@.name==\"$(kubectl config current-context)\")].context.namespace}"
    tutorial
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see the name of your namespace in the output.

1.  Download one of the [Istio release archives](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases) and extract
    the `istioctl` command line tool from the `bin` directory, and verify that you
    can run `istioctl` with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl version
    version.BuildInfo{Version:"release-1.1-20190214-09-16", GitRevision:"6113e155ac85e2485e30dfea2b80fd97afd3130a", User:"root", Host:"4496ae63-3039-11e9-86e9-0a580a2c0304", GolangVersion:"go1.10.4", DockerHub:"gcr.io/istio-release", BuildStatus:"Clean", GitTag:"1.1.0-snapshot.6-6-g6113e15"}
    {{< /text >}}

Congratulations, you configured your local computer!

You are ready to [run a single service locally](/docs/examples/microservices-istio/single/).

Commit message:

Tutorial fixes: prerequisites, setup Kubernetes, setup a local computer (#6153)
* no need to "connect to your cluster" in order to create an environment variable

* no need for mutual TLS in Istio installation

* fix the Jaeger port

should be 9411 instead of previous 80

* split the sentence about sending the configuration files to each participant

* you configured the cluster for the tutorial (single)

in this tutorial, the tutorial is used in single. The tutorial is composed of multiple modules.

* when setting local computer, do not export the namespace

the namespace name is selected in the previous steps by the instructors or
by the participant who owns a cluster

content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/setup-local-computer/index.md, after:

---
title: Setup a Local Computer
overview: Set up your local computer for the tutorial.
weight: 3
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

In this module you prepare your local computer for the tutorial.

1.  Install [`curl`](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

1.  Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

1.  Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

1.  Install [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

1.  Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable for the configuration file you received from the tutorial instructors, or
    created yourself in the previous module.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export KUBECONFIG=<the file you recieved or created in the previous module>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Verify that the configuration took effect by printing the current namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl config view -o jsonpath="{.contexts[?(@.name==\"$(kubectl config current-context)\")].context.namespace}"
    tutorial
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see in the output the name of the namespace, allocated for you by the instructors or allocated by
    yourself in the previous module.

1.  Download one of the [Istio release archives](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases) and extract
    the `istioctl` command line tool from the `bin` directory, and verify that you
    can run `istioctl` with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ istioctl version
    version.BuildInfo{Version:"release-1.1-20190214-09-16", GitRevision:"6113e155ac85e2485e30dfea2b80fd97afd3130a", User:"root", Host:"4496ae63-3039-11e9-86e9-0a580a2c0304", GolangVersion:"go1.10.4", DockerHub:"gcr.io/istio-release", BuildStatus:"Clean", GitTag:"1.1.0-snapshot.6-6-g6113e15"}
    {{< /text >}}

Congratulations, you configured your local computer!

You are ready to [run a single service locally](/docs/examples/microservices-istio/single/).
