content/zh/blog/2019/sail-the-blog/index.md, before:

---
title: 博客策略更新
description: 宣布新的博客策略。
publishdate: 2019-02-05
attribution: Rigs Caballero, Google
keywords: [community,blog,contribution,guide,guideline,event]
---

欢迎来到 Istio 博客。

为了让你更方便的在我们的网站上发表博客，我们[更新了内容类型指南](/zh/about/contribute/creating-and-editing-pages/#choosing-a-page-type)。

这次更新的目标是对内容进行更方便的分享和搜索。

我们希望更简单的共享 Istio 方面的最新信息，Istio 博客是一个好的出发点。

如果你认为你的内容符合下面四个分类中的一个，我们非常欢迎将其提交到 Istio 博客之中。

- 文章中详细介绍了你在使用和配置 Istio 中的经验。如果分享了一种新的观点或体验，那就更好了。
- 文章中着重介绍或宣布了 Istio 的功能。
- 文章中对 Istio 的相关事件进行了发布或回顾。
- 文章中详细讲解了使用 Istio 完成一个任务或者满足特定用例需求的相关内容。

仅需[提交一个 PR](/zh/about/contribute/github/#如何贡献)，如果需要，可以[申请评审](/zh/about/contribute/github/#review)。

我们期待能够很快就看到你的 Istio 体验！

Commit message:

zh-translation: initialize the translation content (#5305)
* zh-translation: initialize the translation content

- Restart the Chinese translation precess, refer to https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/5250
- Translation progress is tracked on https://github.com/servicemesher/istio-official-translation

content/zh/blog/2019/sail-the-blog/index.md, after:

---
title: Sail the Blog!
description: Announces the new Istio blog policy.
publishdate: 2019-02-05
last_update: 2019-09-27
attribution: Rigs Caballero, Google
keywords: [community,blog,contribution,guide,guideline,event]
target_release: 1.3
---

Welcome to the Istio blog!

To make it easier to publish your content on our website, we
[updated the content types guide](/about/contribute/creating-and-editing-pages/#choosing-a-page-type).

The goal of the updated guide is to make sharing and finding content easier.

We want to make sharing timely information on Istio easy and the [Istio blog](/blog) is
a good place to start.

We welcome your posts to the blog if you think your content falls in one of the
following four categories:

-  Your post details your experience using and configuring Istio. Ideally, your
   post shares a novel experience or perspective.
-  Your post highlights Istio features.
-  Your post details how to accomplish a task or fulfill a specific use case
   using Istio.

Posting your blog is only [one PR away](/about/contribute/github/#how-to-contribute)
and, if you wish, you can [request a review](/about/contribute/github/#review).

We look forward to reading about your Istio experience on the blog soon!
