content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress.md, before:

---
title: Control Ingress Traffic
description: Describes how to configure Istio to expose a service outside of the service mesh.
weight: 30
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/ingress.html
---

> Note: This task uses the new [v1alpha3 traffic management API](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/). The old API has been deprecated and will be removed in the next Istio release. If you need to use the old version, follow the docs [here](https://archive.istio.io/v0.7/docs/tasks/traffic-management/).

In a Kubernetes environment, the [Kubernetes Ingress Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
is used to specify services that should be exposed outside the cluster.
In an Istio service mesh, a better approach (which also works in both Kubernetes and other environments) is to use a
different configuration model, namely [Istio Gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway).
A `Gateway` allows Istio features, for example, monitoring and route rules, to be applied to traffic entering the cluster.

This task describes how to configure Istio to expose a service outside of the service mesh using an Istio `Gateway`.

## Before you begin

*   Setup Istio by following the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Make sure your current directory is the `istio` directory.

*   Start the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/httpbin) sample,
    which will be used as the destination service to be exposed externally.

    If you have enabled [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection), do

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    ```
    otherwise, you have to manually inject the sidecar before deploying the `httpbin` application:

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml)
    ```

*   A private key and certificate can be created for testing using [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/).

    ```command
    $ openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /tmp/tls.key -out /tmp/tls.crt -subj "/CN=httpbin.example.com"
    ```
*   Determine the ingress IP and ports, see the next subsection.

### Determining the ingress IP and ports

Execute the following command to determine if your Kubernetes cluster is running in an environment that supports external load balancers.

```command
$ kubectl get svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system
NAME                   TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                                      AGE
istio-ingressgateway   LoadBalancer   172.21.109.129   130.211.10.121  80:31380/TCP,443:31390/TCP,31400:31400/TCP   17h
```

If the `EXTERNAL-IP` value is set, your environment has an external load balancer that you can use for the ingress gateway.
If the `EXTERNAL-IP` value is `<none>` (or perpetually `<pending>`), your environment does not provide an external load balancer for the ingress gateway.
In this case, you can access the gateway using the service `nodePort`.

#### Determining the ingress IP and ports for a load balancer ingress gateway

```command
$ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
$ export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http")].port}')
$ export SECURE_INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].port}')
```

#### Determining the ingress IP and ports for a `nodePort` ingress gateway

Determine the ports:
```command
$ export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http")].nodePort}')
$ export SECURE_INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].nodePort}')
```

Determining the ingress IP depends on the cluster provider.

1.  _GKE:_

    ```command
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=<workerNodeAddress>
    ```

    You need to create firewall rules to allow the TCP traffic to the _ingressgateway_ service's ports.
    Run the following commands to allow the traffic for the HTTP port, the secure port (HTTPS) or both.

    ```command
    $ gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-gateway-http --allow tcp:$INGRESS_PORT
    ```

    ```command
    $ gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-gateway-https --allow tcp:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT
    ```

1.  _IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Free Tier:_

    ```command
    $ bx cs workers <cluster-name or id>
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=<public IP of one of the worker nodes>
    ```

1.  _Other environments (e.g., minikube, IBM Cloud Private etc):_

    ```command
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl get po -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system -o 'jsonpath={.items[0].status.hostIP}')
    ```

## Configuring ingress using an Istio Gateway

An ingress [Gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway) describes a load balancer operating at the edge of the mesh receiving incoming HTTP/TCP connections.
It configures exposed ports, protocols, etc.,
but, unlike [Kubernetes Ingress Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/),
does not include any traffic routing configuration. Traffic routing for ingress traffic is instead configured
using Istio routing rules, exactly in the same was as for internal service requests.

In the following subsections we configure a `Gateway` on port 80 for unencrypted HTTP traffic first. Then we add a secure port 443 for HTTPS traffic.

### Configuring a gateway for HTTP

1.  Create an Istio `Gateway`

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: Gateway
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-gateway
        spec:
          selector:
            istio: ingressgateway # use Istio default gateway implementation
          servers:
          - port:
              number: 80
              name: http
              protocol: HTTP
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
        EOF
    ```

1.  Configure routes for traffic entering via the `Gateway`

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          hosts:
          - "httpbin.example.com"
          gateways:
          - httpbin-gateway
          http:
          - match:
            - uri:
                prefix: /status
            - uri:
                prefix: /delay
            route:
            - destination:
                port:
                  number: 8000
                host: httpbin
        EOF
    ```

    Here we've created a [virtual service](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#VirtualService)
    configuration for the `httpbin` service, containing two route rules that allow traffic for paths `/status` and
    `/delay`.

    The [gateways](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#VirtualService.gateways) list
    specifies that only requests through our `httpbin-gateway` are allowed.
    All other external requests will be rejected with a 404 response.

    Note that in this configuration internal requests from other services in the mesh are not subject to these rules,
    but instead will simply default to round-robin routing. To apply these (or other rules) to internal calls,
    we could add the special value `mesh` to the list of `gateways`.

### Verifying the gateway for HTTP

1.  Access the _httpbin_ service using _curl_. Note the `--resolve` flag of _curl_ that allows to access an IP address by using an arbitrary domain name. In our case we access our ingress Gateway by "httpbin.example.com". Note that we specified "httpbin.example.com" as a host handled by our `Gateway`.

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I http://httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT/status/200
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    server: envoy
    date: Mon, 29 Jan 2018 04:45:49 GMT
    content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
    access-control-allow-origin: *
    access-control-allow-credentials: true
    content-length: 0
    x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 48
    ```

1.  Access any other URL that has not been explicitly exposed. You should see an HTTP 404 error:

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I http://httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT/headers
    HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
    date: Mon, 29 Jan 2018 04:45:49 GMT
    server: envoy
    content-length: 0
    ```

### Add a secure port (HTTPS) to our gateway

In this subsection we add to our gateway the port 443 to handle the HTTPS traffic. We create a secret with a certificate and a private key. Then we replace the previous `Gateway` definition with a definition that contains a server on the port 443, in addition to the previously defined server on the port 80.

1. Create a Kubernetes `Secret` to hold the key/cert

    Create the secret `istio-ingressgateway-certs` in namespace `istio-system` using `kubectl`. The Istio gateway
    will automatically load the secret.

    > The secret MUST be called `istio-ingressgateway-certs` in the `istio-system` namespace, or it will not
    > be mounted and available to the Istio gateway.

    ```command
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls istio-ingressgateway-certs --key /tmp/tls.key --cert /tmp/tls.crt
    ```

    Note that by default all service accounts in the `istio-system` namespace can access this ingress key/cert,
    which risks leaking the key/cert. You can change the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) rules to protect them.
    See (Link TBD) for details.

1. Add to the previous `Gateway` definition a server section for the port 443.

    > The location of the certificate and the private key MUST be `/etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs`, or the gateway will fail to load them.

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl replace -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: Gateway
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-gateway
        spec:
          selector:
            istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
          servers:
          - port:
              number: 80
              name: http
              protocol: HTTP
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
          - port:
              number: 443
              name: https
              protocol: HTTPS
            tls:
              mode: SIMPLE
              serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
              privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
        EOF
    ```

### Verifying the gateway for HTTPS

1. Verify that our gateway still works for the port 80 and accepts unencrypted HTTP traffic as before. We do it by accessing the _httpbin_ service, port 80, as described in the [Verifying the gateway for HTTP](#verifying-the-gateway-for-http) subsection.

1. Access the _httpbin_ service by HTTPS, sending an HTTPS request by _curl_ to `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT`.
Here we use _curl_'s `-k` option to instruct _curl_ not to check our certificate
(since it is a fake certificate we created for testing the Gateway only, _curl_ is not aware of it).

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I -k https://httpbin.example.com:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT/status/200
    HTTP/2 200
    server: envoy
    date: Mon, 14 May 2018 13:54:53 GMT
    content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
    access-control-allow-origin: *
    access-control-allow-credentials: true
    content-length: 0
    x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 6
    ```

    > Note that it may take time for the new gateway defintion to propagate and you may get the following error: `Failed to connect to httpbin.example.com port <your secure port>: Connection refused`. Wait for a minute and retry the `curl` call again.

### Disable the HTTP port

If we want to only allow HTTPS traffic into our service mesh, we can remove the HTTP port from our gateway.

1.  Redefine the `Gateway` without the HTTP port:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl replace -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: Gateway
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-gateway
        spec:
          selector:
            istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
          servers:
          - port:
              number: 443
              name: https
              protocol: HTTPS
            tls:
              mode: SIMPLE
              serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
              privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
        EOF
    ```

1.  Access the HTTP port and verify that it is not accessible (an error is returned):

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I http://httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT/status/200
    ```

## Understanding what happened

The `Gateway` configuration resources allow external traffic to enter the
Istio service mesh and make the traffic management and policy features of Istio
available for edge services.

In the preceding steps we created a service inside the Istio service mesh
and showed how to expose both HTTP and HTTPS endpoints of the service to
external traffic.

## Cleanup

1.  Remove the `Gateway` configuration.

    ```command
    $ istioctl delete gateway httpbin-gateway
    ```

1.  Remove the `VirtualService` and secret.

    ```command
    $ istioctl delete virtualservice httpbin
    $ kubectl delete -n istio-system secret istio-ingressgateway-certs
    ```

1.  Shutdown the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/httpbin) service.

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    ```

## What's next

* Learn more about [Traffic Routing](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/).

Commit message:

unite all the ingress cleanup steps in one step (#1423)
to enable cleanup by one copy&paste
use kubectl delete --ignore-not-found=true flag, so if a secret was not
defined, no error will be printed

content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress.md, after:

---
title: Control Ingress Traffic
description: Describes how to configure Istio to expose a service outside of the service mesh.
weight: 30
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/ingress.html
---

> Note: This task uses the new [v1alpha3 traffic management API](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/). The old API has been deprecated and will be removed in the next Istio release. If you need to use the old version, follow the docs [here](https://archive.istio.io/v0.7/docs/tasks/traffic-management/).

In a Kubernetes environment, the [Kubernetes Ingress Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
is used to specify services that should be exposed outside the cluster.
In an Istio service mesh, a better approach (which also works in both Kubernetes and other environments) is to use a
different configuration model, namely [Istio Gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway).
A `Gateway` allows Istio features, for example, monitoring and route rules, to be applied to traffic entering the cluster.

This task describes how to configure Istio to expose a service outside of the service mesh using an Istio `Gateway`.

## Before you begin

*   Setup Istio by following the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Make sure your current directory is the `istio` directory.

*   Start the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/httpbin) sample,
    which will be used as the destination service to be exposed externally.

    If you have enabled [automatic sidecar injection](/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection), do

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    ```
    otherwise, you have to manually inject the sidecar before deploying the `httpbin` application:

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml)
    ```

*   A private key and certificate can be created for testing using [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/).

    ```command
    $ openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /tmp/tls.key -out /tmp/tls.crt -subj "/CN=httpbin.example.com"
    ```
*   Determine the ingress IP and ports, see the next subsection.

### Determining the ingress IP and ports

Execute the following command to determine if your Kubernetes cluster is running in an environment that supports external load balancers.

```command
$ kubectl get svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system
NAME                   TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                                      AGE
istio-ingressgateway   LoadBalancer   172.21.109.129   130.211.10.121  80:31380/TCP,443:31390/TCP,31400:31400/TCP   17h
```

If the `EXTERNAL-IP` value is set, your environment has an external load balancer that you can use for the ingress gateway.
If the `EXTERNAL-IP` value is `<none>` (or perpetually `<pending>`), your environment does not provide an external load balancer for the ingress gateway.
In this case, you can access the gateway using the service `nodePort`.

#### Determining the ingress IP and ports for a load balancer ingress gateway

```command
$ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
$ export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http")].port}')
$ export SECURE_INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].port}')
```

#### Determining the ingress IP and ports for a `nodePort` ingress gateway

Determine the ports:
```command
$ export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http")].nodePort}')
$ export SECURE_INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="https")].nodePort}')
```

Determining the ingress IP depends on the cluster provider.

1.  _GKE:_

    ```command
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=<workerNodeAddress>
    ```

    You need to create firewall rules to allow the TCP traffic to the _ingressgateway_ service's ports.
    Run the following commands to allow the traffic for the HTTP port, the secure port (HTTPS) or both.

    ```command
    $ gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-gateway-http --allow tcp:$INGRESS_PORT
    ```

    ```command
    $ gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-gateway-https --allow tcp:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT
    ```

1.  _IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Free Tier:_

    ```command
    $ bx cs workers <cluster-name or id>
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=<public IP of one of the worker nodes>
    ```

1.  _Other environments (e.g., minikube, IBM Cloud Private etc):_

    ```command
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl get po -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system -o 'jsonpath={.items[0].status.hostIP}')
    ```

## Configuring ingress using an Istio Gateway

An ingress [Gateway](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#Gateway) describes a load balancer operating at the edge of the mesh receiving incoming HTTP/TCP connections.
It configures exposed ports, protocols, etc.,
but, unlike [Kubernetes Ingress Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/),
does not include any traffic routing configuration. Traffic routing for ingress traffic is instead configured
using Istio routing rules, exactly in the same was as for internal service requests.

In the following subsections we configure a `Gateway` on port 80 for unencrypted HTTP traffic first. Then we add a secure port 443 for HTTPS traffic.

### Configuring a gateway for HTTP

1.  Create an Istio `Gateway`

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: Gateway
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-gateway
        spec:
          selector:
            istio: ingressgateway # use Istio default gateway implementation
          servers:
          - port:
              number: 80
              name: http
              protocol: HTTP
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
        EOF
    ```

1.  Configure routes for traffic entering via the `Gateway`

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          hosts:
          - "httpbin.example.com"
          gateways:
          - httpbin-gateway
          http:
          - match:
            - uri:
                prefix: /status
            - uri:
                prefix: /delay
            route:
            - destination:
                port:
                  number: 8000
                host: httpbin
        EOF
    ```

    Here we've created a [virtual service](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#VirtualService)
    configuration for the `httpbin` service, containing two route rules that allow traffic for paths `/status` and
    `/delay`.

    The [gateways](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#VirtualService.gateways) list
    specifies that only requests through our `httpbin-gateway` are allowed.
    All other external requests will be rejected with a 404 response.

    Note that in this configuration internal requests from other services in the mesh are not subject to these rules,
    but instead will simply default to round-robin routing. To apply these (or other rules) to internal calls,
    we could add the special value `mesh` to the list of `gateways`.

### Verifying the gateway for HTTP

1.  Access the _httpbin_ service using _curl_. Note the `--resolve` flag of _curl_ that allows to access an IP address by using an arbitrary domain name. In our case we access our ingress Gateway by "httpbin.example.com". Note that we specified "httpbin.example.com" as a host handled by our `Gateway`.

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I http://httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT/status/200
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    server: envoy
    date: Mon, 29 Jan 2018 04:45:49 GMT
    content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
    access-control-allow-origin: *
    access-control-allow-credentials: true
    content-length: 0
    x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 48
    ```

1.  Access any other URL that has not been explicitly exposed. You should see an HTTP 404 error:

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I http://httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT/headers
    HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
    date: Mon, 29 Jan 2018 04:45:49 GMT
    server: envoy
    content-length: 0
    ```

### Add a secure port (HTTPS) to our gateway

In this subsection we add to our gateway the port 443 to handle the HTTPS traffic. We create a secret with a certificate and a private key. Then we replace the previous `Gateway` definition with a definition that contains a server on the port 443, in addition to the previously defined server on the port 80.

1. Create a Kubernetes `Secret` to hold the key/cert

    Create the secret `istio-ingressgateway-certs` in namespace `istio-system` using `kubectl`. The Istio gateway
    will automatically load the secret.

    > The secret MUST be called `istio-ingressgateway-certs` in the `istio-system` namespace, or it will not
    > be mounted and available to the Istio gateway.

    ```command
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls istio-ingressgateway-certs --key /tmp/tls.key --cert /tmp/tls.crt
    ```

    Note that by default all service accounts in the `istio-system` namespace can access this ingress key/cert,
    which risks leaking the key/cert. You can change the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) rules to protect them.
    See (Link TBD) for details.

1. Add to the previous `Gateway` definition a server section for the port 443.

    > The location of the certificate and the private key MUST be `/etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs`, or the gateway will fail to load them.

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl replace -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: Gateway
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-gateway
        spec:
          selector:
            istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
          servers:
          - port:
              number: 80
              name: http
              protocol: HTTP
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
          - port:
              number: 443
              name: https
              protocol: HTTPS
            tls:
              mode: SIMPLE
              serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
              privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
        EOF
    ```

### Verifying the gateway for HTTPS

1. Verify that our gateway still works for the port 80 and accepts unencrypted HTTP traffic as before. We do it by accessing the _httpbin_ service, port 80, as described in the [Verifying the gateway for HTTP](#verifying-the-gateway-for-http) subsection.

1. Access the _httpbin_ service by HTTPS, sending an HTTPS request by _curl_ to `SECURE_INGRESS_PORT`.
Here we use _curl_'s `-k` option to instruct _curl_ not to check our certificate
(since it is a fake certificate we created for testing the Gateway only, _curl_ is not aware of it).

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I -k https://httpbin.example.com:$SECURE_INGRESS_PORT/status/200
    HTTP/2 200
    server: envoy
    date: Mon, 14 May 2018 13:54:53 GMT
    content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
    access-control-allow-origin: *
    access-control-allow-credentials: true
    content-length: 0
    x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 6
    ```

    > Note that it may take time for the new gateway defintion to propagate and you may get the following error: `Failed to connect to httpbin.example.com port <your secure port>: Connection refused`. Wait for a minute and retry the `curl` call again.

### Disable the HTTP port

If we want to only allow HTTPS traffic into our service mesh, we can remove the HTTP port from our gateway.

1.  Redefine the `Gateway` without the HTTP port:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl replace -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: Gateway
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-gateway
        spec:
          selector:
            istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
          servers:
          - port:
              number: 443
              name: https
              protocol: HTTPS
            tls:
              mode: SIMPLE
              serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
              privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
            hosts:
            - "httpbin.example.com"
        EOF
    ```

1.  Access the HTTP port and verify that it is not accessible (an error is returned):

    ```command
    $ curl --resolve httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT:$INGRESS_HOST -I http://httpbin.example.com:$INGRESS_PORT/status/200
    ```

## Understanding what happened

The `Gateway` configuration resources allow external traffic to enter the
Istio service mesh and make the traffic management and policy features of Istio
available for edge services.

In the preceding steps we created a service inside the Istio service mesh
and showed how to expose both HTTP and HTTPS endpoints of the service to
external traffic.

## Cleanup

Delete the `Gateway` configuration, the `VirtualService` and the secret, and shutdown the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/httpbin) service:

```command
$ istioctl delete gateway httpbin-gateway
$ istioctl delete virtualservice httpbin
$ kubectl delete --ignore-not-found=true -n istio-system secret istio-ingressgateway-certs
$ kubectl delete --ignore-not-found=true -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
```

## What's next

* Learn more about [Traffic Routing](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/).
