content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring.md, before:

---
title: Mirroring
description: This task demonstrates the traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities of Istio
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,mirroring]
---

> This task uses the new [v1alpha3 traffic management API](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/). The old API has been deprecated and will be removed in the next Istio release. If you need to use the old version, follow the docs [here](https://archive.istio.io/v0.7/docs/tasks/traffic-management/).

This task demonstrates the traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities of Istio. Traffic mirroring is a powerful concept that allows feature teams to bring changes to production with as little risk as possible. Mirroring brings a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service and happens out of band of the critical request path for the primary service.

## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Start two versions of the `httpbin` service that have access logging enabled

    httpbin-v1:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-v1
        spec:
          replicas: 1
          template:
            metadata:
              labels:
                app: httpbin
                version: v1
            spec:
              containers:
              - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
                name: httpbin
                command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
                ports:
                - containerPort: 8080
        EOF
    ```

    httpbin-v2:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-v2
        spec:
          replicas: 1
          template:
            metadata:
              labels:
                app: httpbin
                version: v2
            spec:
              containers:
              - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
                name: httpbin
                command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
                ports:
                - containerPort: 8080
        EOF
    ```

    httpbin Kubernetes service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Service
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
          labels:
            app: httpbin
        spec:
          ports:
          - name: http
            port: 8080
          selector:
            app: httpbin
        EOF
    ```

*   Start the `sleep` service so we can use `curl` to provide load

    sleep service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: sleep
        spec:
          replicas: 1
          template:
            metadata:
              labels:
                app: sleep
            spec:
              containers:
              - name: sleep
                image: tutum/curl
                command: ["/bin/sleep","infinity"]
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        EOF
    ```

## Mirroring

Let's set up a scenario to demonstrate the traffic-mirroring capabilities of Istio. We have two versions of our `httpbin` service. By default Kubernetes will load balance across both versions of the service. We'll use Istio to force all traffic to v1 of the `httpbin` service.

### Creating default routing policy

1.  Create a default route rule to route all traffic to `v1` of our `httpbin` service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          hosts:
            - httpbin
          http:
          - route:
            - destination:
                host: httpbin
                subset: v1
              weight: 100
        ---
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: DestinationRule
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          host: httpbin
          subsets:
          - name: v1
            labels:
              version: v1
          - name: v2
            labels:
              version: v2
        EOF
    ```

    Now all traffic should go to `httpbin v1` service. Let's try sending in some traffic:

    ```command-output-as-json
    $ export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    {
      "headers": {
        "Accept": "*/*",
        "Content-Length": "0",
        "Host": "httpbin:8080",
        "User-Agent": "curl/7.35.0",
        "X-B3-Sampled": "1",
        "X-B3-Spanid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-B3-Traceid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-Ot-Span-Context": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;0000000000000000"
      }
    }
    ```

    If we check the logs for `v1` and `v2` of our `httpbin` pods, we should see access log entries for only `v1`:

    ```command
    $ export V1_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v1 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    ```

    ```command
    $ export V2_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v2 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    <none>
    ```

1.  Change the route rule to mirror traffic to v2

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl replace -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          hosts:
            - httpbin
          http:
          - route:
            - destination:
                host: httpbin
                subset: v1
              weight: 100
            mirror:
              host: httpbin
              subset: v2
        EOF
    ```

    This route rule specifies we route 100% of the traffic to v1. The last stanza specifies we want to mirror to the `httpbin v2` service. When traffic gets mirrored, the requests are sent to the mirrored service with its Host/Authority header appended with *-shadow*. For example, *cluster-1* becomes *cluster-1-shadow*. Also important to realize is that these requests are mirrored as "fire and forget", i.e., the responses are discarded.

    Now if we send in traffic:

    ```command
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    ```

    We should see access logging for both `v1` and `v2`. The access logs created in `v2` is the mirrored requests that are actually going to `v1`.

    ```command
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    ```

    ```command
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 361 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    ```

## Cleaning up

1.  Remove the rules.

    ```command
    $ istioctl delete virtualservice httpbin
    $ istioctl delete destinationrule httpbin
    ```

1.  Shutdown the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/{{<branch_name>}}/samples/httpbin) service and client.

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete deploy httpbin-v1 httpbin-v2 sleep
    $ kubectl delete svc httpbin
    ```

## What's next

Check out the [Mirroring configuration](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#HTTPRoute-mirror) reference documentation.

Commit message:

Update for installations with mTLS auth enabled (#1503)
* Update for installations with mTLS auth enabled

The docs do not provide reference to installations with mTLS auth enabled.  If mTLS auth is enabled and the user goes through the instructions, they will encounter `upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers` when the DestinationRule is applied.

istio/issues#375 (comment) helped lead to the resolution.

content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring.md, after:

---
title: Mirroring
description: This task demonstrates the traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities of Istio
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,mirroring]
---

> This task uses the new [v1alpha3 traffic management API](/blog/2018/v1alpha3-routing/). The old API has been deprecated and will be removed in the next Istio release. If you need to use the old version, follow the docs [here](https://archive.istio.io/v0.7/docs/tasks/traffic-management/).

This task demonstrates the traffic shadowing/mirroring capabilities of Istio. Traffic mirroring is a powerful concept that allows feature teams to bring changes to production with as little risk as possible. Mirroring brings a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service and happens out of band of the critical request path for the primary service.

## Before you begin

* Setup Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Start two versions of the `httpbin` service that have access logging enabled

    httpbin-v1:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-v1
        spec:
          replicas: 1
          template:
            metadata:
              labels:
                app: httpbin
                version: v1
            spec:
              containers:
              - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
                name: httpbin
                command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
                ports:
                - containerPort: 8080
        EOF
    ```

    httpbin-v2:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: httpbin-v2
        spec:
          replicas: 1
          template:
            metadata:
              labels:
                app: httpbin
                version: v2
            spec:
              containers:
              - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
                name: httpbin
                command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
                ports:
                - containerPort: 8080
        EOF
    ```

    httpbin Kubernetes service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Service
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
          labels:
            app: httpbin
        spec:
          ports:
          - name: http
            port: 8080
          selector:
            app: httpbin
        EOF
    ```

*   Start the `sleep` service so we can use `curl` to provide load

    sleep service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: sleep
        spec:
          replicas: 1
          template:
            metadata:
              labels:
                app: sleep
            spec:
              containers:
              - name: sleep
                image: tutum/curl
                command: ["/bin/sleep","infinity"]
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        EOF
    ```

## Mirroring

Let's set up a scenario to demonstrate the traffic-mirroring capabilities of Istio. We have two versions of our `httpbin` service. By default Kubernetes will load balance across both versions of the service. We'll use Istio to force all traffic to v1 of the `httpbin` service.

### Creating default routing policy

1.  Create a default route rule to route all traffic to `v1` of our `httpbin` service:

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl create -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          hosts:
            - httpbin
          http:
          - route:
            - destination:
                host: httpbin
                subset: v1
              weight: 100
        ---
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: DestinationRule
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          host: httpbin
          subsets:
          - name: v1
            labels:
              version: v1
          - name: v2
            labels:
              version: v2
        EOF
    ```

    > NOTE: If you installed/configured istio with mTLS Authentication enabled, you must add the [TLSSettings.TLSmode]( /docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#TLSSettings-TLSmode), `mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL` as noted in the [TLSSettings](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#TLSSettings) reference.

    Now all traffic should go to `httpbin v1` service. Let's try sending in some traffic:

    ```command-output-as-json
    $ export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    {
      "headers": {
        "Accept": "*/*",
        "Content-Length": "0",
        "Host": "httpbin:8080",
        "User-Agent": "curl/7.35.0",
        "X-B3-Sampled": "1",
        "X-B3-Spanid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-B3-Traceid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-Ot-Span-Context": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;0000000000000000"
      }
    }
    ```

    If we check the logs for `v1` and `v2` of our `httpbin` pods, we should see access log entries for only `v1`:

    ```command
    $ export V1_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v1 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    ```

    ```command
    $ export V2_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v2 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    <none>
    ```

1.  Change the route rule to mirror traffic to v2

    ```bash
        cat <<EOF | istioctl replace -f -
        apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
        kind: VirtualService
        metadata:
          name: httpbin
        spec:
          hosts:
            - httpbin
          http:
          - route:
            - destination:
                host: httpbin
                subset: v1
              weight: 100
            mirror:
              host: httpbin
              subset: v2
        EOF
    ```

    This route rule specifies we route 100% of the traffic to v1. The last stanza specifies we want to mirror to the `httpbin v2` service. When traffic gets mirrored, the requests are sent to the mirrored service with its Host/Authority header appended with *-shadow*. For example, *cluster-1* becomes *cluster-1-shadow*. Also important to realize is that these requests are mirrored as "fire and forget", i.e., the responses are discarded.

    Now if we send in traffic:

    ```command
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    ```

    We should see access logging for both `v1` and `v2`. The access logs created in `v2` is the mirrored requests that are actually going to `v1`.

    ```command
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    ```

    ```command
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 361 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    ```

## Cleaning up

1.  Remove the rules.

    ```command
    $ istioctl delete virtualservice httpbin
    $ istioctl delete destinationrule httpbin
    ```

1.  Shutdown the [httpbin](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/{{<branch_name>}}/samples/httpbin) service and client.

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete deploy httpbin-v1 httpbin-v2 sleep
    $ kubectl delete svc httpbin
    ```

## What's next

Check out the [Mirroring configuration](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#HTTPRoute-mirror) reference documentation.
