content/blog/2018/export-logs-through-stackdriver/index.md, before:

---
title: Exporting Logs to BigQuery, GCS, Pub/Sub through Stackdriver
description: How to export Istio Access Logs to different sinks like BigQuery, GCS, Pub/Sub through Stackdriver.
publishdate: 2018-06-18
subtitle:
attribution: Nupur Garg and Douglas Reid
weight: 87
---

This post shows how to direct Istio logs to [Stackdriver](https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/)
and export those logs to various configured sinks such as such as
[BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/), [Google Cloud Storage(GCS)](https://cloud.google.com/storage/)
or [Cloud Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/). At the end of this post you can perform
analytics on Istio data from your favorite places such as BigQuery, GCS or Cloud Pub/Sub.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application is used as the example
application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

[Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an application.

## Configuring Istio to export logs

Istio exports logs using the `logentry` [template](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/templates/logentry) configured for Mixer as [accesslog
entry](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/{{<branch_name>}}/install/kubernetes/helm/istio/charts/mixer/templates/config.yaml#L134:9).
This specifies all the variables that are available for analysis. It
contains information like source service, destination service, auth
metrics (coming..) among others. Following is a diagram of the pipeline:

{{< image width="75%" ratio="75%"
link="./istio-analytics-using-stackdriver.png"
caption="Diagram of exporting logs from Istio to StackDriver for analysis" >}}

Istio supports exporting logs to Stackdriver which can be configured to export
logs to your favorite sink like BigQuery, Pub/Sub or GCS. Please follow the steps
below to setup your favorite sink for exporting logs first and then Stackdriver
in Istio.

### Setting up various log sinks

Common setup for all sinks:

1. Enable [StackDriver Monitoring API](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/enable-api) for the project.
1. Make sure `principalEmail` that would be setting up the sink has write access to the project and Logging Admin role permissions.

#### BigQuery

1.  [Create a BigQuery dataset](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/datasets) as a destination for the logs export.
1.  Record the ID of the dataset. It will be needed to configure the Stackdriver handler.
    It would be of the form `bigquery.googleapis.com/projects/[PROJECT_ID]/datasets/[DATASET_ID]`
1.  Give [sink’s writer identity](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/tasks/exporting-logs#writing_to_the_destination): `cloud-logs@system.gserviceaccount.com` BigQuery Data Editor role in IAM.

#### Google Cloud Storage (GCS)

1.  [Create a GCS bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) where you would like logs to get exported in GCS.
1.  Recode the ID of the bucket. It will be needed to configure Stackdriver.
    It would be of the form `storage.googleapis.com/[BUCKET_ID]`
1.  Give [sink’s writer identity](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/tasks/exporting-logs#writing_to_the_destination): `cloud-logs@system.gserviceaccount.com` Storage Object Creator role in IAM.

#### Google Cloud Pub/Sub

1.  [Create a topic](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/admin) where you would like logs to get exported in Google Cloud Pub/Sub.
1.  Recode the ID of the topic. It will be needed to configure Stackdriver.
    It would be of the form `pubsub.googleapis.com/projects/[PROJECT_ID]/topics/[TOPIC_ID]`
1.  Give [sink’s writer identity](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/tasks/exporting-logs#writing_to_the_destination): `cloud-logs@system.gserviceaccount.com` Pub/Sub Publisher role in IAM.

### Setting up Stackdriver

A Stackdriver handler must be created to export data to Stackdriver. The configuration schema
for a Stackdriver handler can be found [here](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/{{<branch_name>}}/policy/v1beta1/cfg.proto#L243:9).
Config proto for Stackdriver can be found
[here](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/{{<branch_name>}}/mixer/adapter/stackdriver/config/config.proto).
Handler is configured based on this proto.

1.  Save the following yaml file as `stackdriver.yaml`. Replace `<project_id>,
    <sink_id>, <sink_destination>, <log_filter>` with their specific values.

    ```yaml
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: stackdriver
        metadata:
          name: handler
          namespace: istio-system
        spec:
          # We'll use the default value from the adapter, once per minute, so we don't need to supply a value.
          # pushInterval: 1m
          # Must be supplied for the Stackdriver adapter to work
          project_id: "<project_id>"
          # One of the following must be set; the preferred method is `appCredentials`, which corresponds to
          # Google Application Default Credentials. See:
          #    https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/application-default-credentials
          # If none is provided we default to app credentials.
          # appCredentials:
          # apiKey:
          # serviceAccountPath:
          # Describes how to map Istio logs into Stackdriver.
          logInfo:
            accesslog.logentry.istio-system:
              payloadTemplate: '{{or (.sourceIp) "-"}} - {{or (.sourceUser) "-"}} [{{or (.timestamp.Format "02/Jan/2006:15:04:05 -0700") "-"}}] "{{or (.method) "-"}} {{or (.url) "-"}} {{or (.protocol) "-"}}" {{or (.responseCode) "-"}} {{or (.responseSize) "-"}}'
              httpMapping:
                url: url
                status: responseCode
                requestSize: requestSize
                responseSize: responseSize
                latency: latency
                localIp: sourceIp
                remoteIp: destinationIp
                method: method
                userAgent: userAgent
                referer: referer
              labelNames:
              - sourceIp
              - destinationIp
              - sourceService
              - sourceUser
              - sourceNamespace
              - destinationIp
              - destinationService
              - destinationNamespace
              - apiClaims
              - apiKey
              - protocol
              - method
              - url
              - responseCode
              - responseSize
              - requestSize
              - latency
              - connectionMtls
              - userAgent
              - responseTimestamp
              - receivedBytes
              - sentBytes
              - referer
              sinkInfo:
                id: '<sink_id>'
                destination: '<sink_destination>'
                filter: '<log_filter>'
        ---
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: rule
        metadata:
          name: stackdriver
          namespace: istio-system
        spec:
          match: "true" # If omitted match is true.
          actions:
          - handler: handler.stackdriver
            instances:
            - accesslog.logentry
        ---
    ```

1.  Push the configuration

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f stackdriver.yaml
    stackdriver "handler" created
    rule "stackdriver" created
    logentry "stackdriverglobalmr" created
    metric "stackdriverrequestcount" created
    metric "stackdriverrequestduration" created
    metric "stackdriverrequestsize" created
    metric "stackdriverresponsesize" created
    ```

1.  Send traffic to the sample application.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

    ```command
    $ curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
    ```

1.  Verify that logs are flowing through Stackdriver to the configured sink.

    *   Stackdriver: Navigate to the [Stackdriver Logs
        Viewer](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/logs/viewer) for your project
        and look under "GKE Container" -> "Cluster Name" -> "Namespace Id" for
        Istio Access logs.
    *   BigQuery: Navigate to the [BigQuery
        Interface](https://bigquery.cloud.google.com/) for your project and you
        should find a table with prefix `accesslog_logentry_istio` in your sink
        dataset.
    *   GCS: Navigate to the [Storage
        Browser](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/storage/browser/) for your
        project and you should find a bucket named
        `accesslog.logentry.istio-system` in your sink bucket.
    *   Pub/Sub: Navigate to the [Pub/Sub
        TopicList](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/cloudpubsub/topicList) for
        your project and you should find a topic for `accesslog` in your sink
        topic.

## Understanding what happened

`Stackdriver.yaml` file above configured Istio to send accesslogs to
StackDriver and then added a sink configuration where these logs could be
exported. In detail as follows:

1.  Added a handler of kind stackdriver

    ```yaml
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: stackdriver
        metadata:
          name: handler
          namespace: <your defined namespace>
    ```

1.  Added logInfo in spec

    ```yaml
        spec:
          logInfo: accesslog.logentry.istio-system:
            labelNames:
            - sourceIp
            - destinationIp
            ...
            ...
            sinkInfo:
              id: '<sink_id>'
              destination: '<sink_destination>'
              filter: '<log_filter>'
    ```

    In the above configuration sinkInfo contains information about the sink where you want
    the logs to get exported to. For more information on how this gets filled for different sinks please refer
    [here](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/export/#sink-terms).

1.  Added a rule for Stackdriver

    ```yaml
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: rule
        metadata:
          name: stackdriver
          namespace: istio-system spec:
          match: "true" # If omitted match is true
        actions:
        - handler: handler.stackdriver
          instances:
          - accesslog.logentry
     ```

## Cleanup

*   Remove the new Stackdriver configuration:

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete -f stackdriver.yaml
    ```

*   If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
    [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions to shutdown
    the application.

## Availability of logs in export sinks

Export to BigQuery is within minutes (we see it to be almost instant), GCS can
have a delay of 2 to 12 hours and Pub/Sub is almost immediately.

Commit message:

Add step to set up GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS (#1510)

content/blog/2018/export-logs-through-stackdriver/index.md, after:

---
title: Exporting Logs to BigQuery, GCS, Pub/Sub through Stackdriver
description: How to export Istio Access Logs to different sinks like BigQuery, GCS, Pub/Sub through Stackdriver.
publishdate: 2018-07-09
subtitle:
attribution: Nupur Garg and Douglas Reid
weight: 87
---

This post shows how to direct Istio logs to [Stackdriver](https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/)
and export those logs to various configured sinks such as such as
[BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/), [Google Cloud Storage(GCS)](https://cloud.google.com/storage/)
or [Cloud Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/). At the end of this post you can perform
analytics on Istio data from your favorite places such as BigQuery, GCS or Cloud Pub/Sub.

The [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application is used as the example
application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

[Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an application.

## Configuring Istio to export logs

Istio exports logs using the `logentry` [template](/docs/reference/config/policy-and-telemetry/templates/logentry) configured for Mixer as [accesslog
entry](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/{{<branch_name>}}/install/kubernetes/helm/istio/charts/mixer/templates/config.yaml#L134:9).
This specifies all the variables that are available for analysis. It
contains information like source service, destination service, auth
metrics (coming..) among others. Following is a diagram of the pipeline:

{{< image width="75%" ratio="75%"
link="./istio-analytics-using-stackdriver.png"
caption="Diagram of exporting logs from Istio to StackDriver for analysis" >}}

Istio supports exporting logs to Stackdriver which can be configured to export
logs to your favorite sink like BigQuery, Pub/Sub or GCS. Please follow the steps
below to setup your favorite sink for exporting logs first and then Stackdriver
in Istio.

### Setting up various log sinks

Common setup for all sinks:

1. Enable [StackDriver Monitoring API](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/enable-api) for the project.
1. Make sure `principalEmail` that would be setting up the sink has write access to the project and Logging Admin role permissions.
1. Make sure the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable is set. Please follow instructions [here](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started) to set it up.

#### BigQuery

1.  [Create a BigQuery dataset](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/datasets) as a destination for the logs export.
1.  Record the ID of the dataset. It will be needed to configure the Stackdriver handler.
    It would be of the form `bigquery.googleapis.com/projects/[PROJECT_ID]/datasets/[DATASET_ID]`
1.  Give [sink’s writer identity](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/tasks/exporting-logs#writing_to_the_destination): `cloud-logs@system.gserviceaccount.com` BigQuery Data Editor role in IAM.
1.  If using [Google Kubernetes Engine](/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start/#google-kubernetes-engine), make sure `bigquery` [Scope](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/container/clusters/create) is enabled on the cluster.

#### Google Cloud Storage (GCS)

1.  [Create a GCS bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) where you would like logs to get exported in GCS.
1.  Recode the ID of the bucket. It will be needed to configure Stackdriver.
    It would be of the form `storage.googleapis.com/[BUCKET_ID]`
1.  Give [sink’s writer identity](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/tasks/exporting-logs#writing_to_the_destination): `cloud-logs@system.gserviceaccount.com` Storage Object Creator role in IAM.

#### Google Cloud Pub/Sub

1.  [Create a topic](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/admin) where you would like logs to get exported in Google Cloud Pub/Sub.
1.  Recode the ID of the topic. It will be needed to configure Stackdriver.
    It would be of the form `pubsub.googleapis.com/projects/[PROJECT_ID]/topics/[TOPIC_ID]`
1.  Give [sink’s writer identity](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/tasks/exporting-logs#writing_to_the_destination): `cloud-logs@system.gserviceaccount.com` Pub/Sub Publisher role in IAM.
1.  If using [Google Kubernetes Engine](/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start/#google-kubernetes-engine), make sure `pubsub` [Scope](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/container/clusters/create) is enabled on the cluster.

### Setting up Stackdriver

A Stackdriver handler must be created to export data to Stackdriver. The configuration schema
for a Stackdriver handler can be found [here](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/{{<branch_name>}}/policy/v1beta1/cfg.proto#L243:9).
Config proto for Stackdriver can be found
[here](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/{{<branch_name>}}/mixer/adapter/stackdriver/config/config.proto).
Handler is configured based on this proto.

1.  Save the following yaml file as `stackdriver.yaml`. Replace `<project_id>,
    <sink_id>, <sink_destination>, <log_filter>` with their specific values.

    ```yaml
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: stackdriver
        metadata:
          name: handler
          namespace: istio-system
        spec:
          # We'll use the default value from the adapter, once per minute, so we don't need to supply a value.
          # pushInterval: 1m
          # Must be supplied for the Stackdriver adapter to work
          project_id: "<project_id>"
          # One of the following must be set; the preferred method is `appCredentials`, which corresponds to
          # Google Application Default Credentials. See:
          #    https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/application-default-credentials
          # If none is provided we default to app credentials.
          # appCredentials:
          # apiKey:
          # serviceAccountPath:
          # Describes how to map Istio logs into Stackdriver.
          logInfo:
            accesslog.logentry.istio-system:
              payloadTemplate: '{{or (.sourceIp) "-"}} - {{or (.sourceUser) "-"}} [{{or (.timestamp.Format "02/Jan/2006:15:04:05 -0700") "-"}}] "{{or (.method) "-"}} {{or (.url) "-"}} {{or (.protocol) "-"}}" {{or (.responseCode) "-"}} {{or (.responseSize) "-"}}'
              httpMapping:
                url: url
                status: responseCode
                requestSize: requestSize
                responseSize: responseSize
                latency: latency
                localIp: sourceIp
                remoteIp: destinationIp
                method: method
                userAgent: userAgent
                referer: referer
              labelNames:
              - sourceIp
              - destinationIp
              - sourceService
              - sourceUser
              - sourceNamespace
              - destinationIp
              - destinationService
              - destinationNamespace
              - apiClaims
              - apiKey
              - protocol
              - method
              - url
              - responseCode
              - responseSize
              - requestSize
              - latency
              - connectionMtls
              - userAgent
              - responseTimestamp
              - receivedBytes
              - sentBytes
              - referer
              sinkInfo:
                id: '<sink_id>'
                destination: '<sink_destination>'
                filter: '<log_filter>'
        ---
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: rule
        metadata:
          name: stackdriver
          namespace: istio-system
        spec:
          match: "true" # If omitted match is true.
          actions:
          - handler: handler.stackdriver
            instances:
            - accesslog.logentry
        ---
    ```

1.  Push the configuration

    ```command
    $ kubectl apply -f stackdriver.yaml
    stackdriver "handler" created
    rule "stackdriver" created
    logentry "stackdriverglobalmr" created
    metric "stackdriverrequestcount" created
    metric "stackdriverrequestduration" created
    metric "stackdriverrequestsize" created
    metric "stackdriverresponsesize" created
    ```

1.  Send traffic to the sample application.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

    ```command
    $ curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
    ```

1.  Verify that logs are flowing through Stackdriver to the configured sink.

    *   Stackdriver: Navigate to the [Stackdriver Logs
        Viewer](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/logs/viewer) for your project
        and look under "GKE Container" -> "Cluster Name" -> "Namespace Id" for
        Istio Access logs.
    *   BigQuery: Navigate to the [BigQuery
        Interface](https://bigquery.cloud.google.com/) for your project and you
        should find a table with prefix `accesslog_logentry_istio` in your sink
        dataset.
    *   GCS: Navigate to the [Storage
        Browser](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/storage/browser/) for your
        project and you should find a bucket named
        `accesslog.logentry.istio-system` in your sink bucket.
    *   Pub/Sub: Navigate to the [Pub/Sub
        TopicList](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/cloudpubsub/topicList) for
        your project and you should find a topic for `accesslog` in your sink
        topic.

## Understanding what happened

`Stackdriver.yaml` file above configured Istio to send accesslogs to
StackDriver and then added a sink configuration where these logs could be
exported. In detail as follows:

1.  Added a handler of kind stackdriver

    ```yaml
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: stackdriver
        metadata:
          name: handler
          namespace: <your defined namespace>
    ```

1.  Added logInfo in spec

    ```yaml
        spec:
          logInfo: accesslog.logentry.istio-system:
            labelNames:
            - sourceIp
            - destinationIp
            ...
            ...
            sinkInfo:
              id: '<sink_id>'
              destination: '<sink_destination>'
              filter: '<log_filter>'
    ```

    In the above configuration sinkInfo contains information about the sink where you want
    the logs to get exported to. For more information on how this gets filled for different sinks please refer
    [here](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/export/#sink-terms).

1.  Added a rule for Stackdriver

    ```yaml
        apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
        kind: rule
        metadata:
          name: stackdriver
          namespace: istio-system spec:
          match: "true" # If omitted match is true
        actions:
        - handler: handler.stackdriver
          instances:
          - accesslog.logentry
     ```

## Cleanup

*   Remove the new Stackdriver configuration:

    ```command
    $ kubectl delete -f stackdriver.yaml
    ```

*   If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
    [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions to shutdown
    the application.

## Availability of logs in export sinks

Export to BigQuery is within minutes (we see it to be almost instant), GCS can
have a delay of 2 to 12 hours and Pub/Sub is almost immediately.
