_docs/tasks/security/faq.md, before:

---
title: FAQ
overview: Common issues, known limitations and work arounds, and other frequently asked questions on this topic.

order: 100

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

* _How can I enable/disable mTLS encryption after I installed Istio?_

  Enabling/disabling mTLS requires uninstalling and installing Istio.

* _Can a service with Istio Auth enabled communicate with a service without
  Istio?_

  This is not supported currently, but will be in the near future.

* _Can I enable Istio Auth with some services while disable others in the
  same cluster?_

  This is not supported currently, but will be in the near future.

* _How can I use Kubernetes liveness and readiness for service health check
  with Istio Auth enabled?_

  If Istio Auth is enabled, http and tcp health check from kubelet will not
  work since they do not have Istio Auth issued certs. A workaround is to
  use command option for health check, e.g., one can install curl in the
  service pod and curl itself within the pod. The Istio team is actively
  working on a solution.

* _Can I access the Kubernetes API Server with Auth enabled?_

  The Kubernetes API server does not support mutual TLS
  authentication. Hence, when Istio mTLS authentication is enabled, it is
  currently not possible to communicate from a pod with Istio sidecar to
  the Kubernetes API server.

Commit message:

Explain the advanced shortcut for enabling/disabling mTLS (#575)
Follow up on https://github.com/istio/istio.github.io/pull/566

_docs/tasks/security/faq.md, after:

---
title: FAQ
overview: Common issues, known limitations and work arounds, and other frequently asked questions on this topic.

order: 100

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

* _How can I enable/disable mTLS encryption after I installed Istio?_

  The most straightforward way to enable/disable mTLS is by entirely
  uninstalling and re-installing Istio.

  If you are an advanced user and understand the risks you can also do the following:
  ```
  kubectl edit configmap -n istio-system istio
  ```
  comment out or uncomment out `authPolicy: MUTUAL_TLS` to toggle mTLS and then
  ```
  kubectl delete pods -n istio-system -l istio=pilot
  ```
  to restart Pilot, after a few seconds (depending on your `*RefreshDelay`) your
  Envoy proxies will have picked up the change from Pilot. During that time your
  services may be unavailable.

  We are working on a smoother solution.

* _Can a service with Istio Auth enabled communicate with a service without
  Istio?_

  This is not supported currently, but will be in the near future.

* _Can I enable Istio Auth with some services while disable others in the
  same cluster?_

  This is not supported currently, but will be in the near future.

* _How can I use Kubernetes liveness and readiness for service health check
  with Istio Auth enabled?_

  If Istio Auth is enabled, http and tcp health check from kubelet will not
  work since they do not have Istio Auth issued certs. A workaround is to
  use command option for health check, e.g., one can install curl in the
  service pod and curl itself within the pod. The Istio team is actively
  working on a solution.

* _Can I access the Kubernetes API Server with Auth enabled?_

  The Kubernetes API server does not support mutual TLS
  authentication. Hence, when Istio mTLS authentication is enabled, it is
  currently not possible to communicate from a pod with Istio sidecar to
  the Kubernetes API server.
