_docs/tasks/security/mutual-tls.md, before:

---
title: Testing Istio mutual TLS authentication
overview: This task shows you how to verify and test Istio's automatic mutual TLS authentication.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

Through this task, you will learn how to:

* Verify the Istio mutual TLS Authentication setup

* Manually test the authentication

## Before you begin

This task assumes you have a Kubernetes cluster:

* Installed Istio with mutual TLS authentication by following
[the Istio installation task]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html).
Note to choose "enable Istio mutual TLS Authentication feature" at step 5 in
"[Installation steps]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html#installation-steps)".

## Verifying Istio's mutual TLS authentication setup

The following commands assume the services are deployed in the default namespace.
Use the parameter *-n yournamespace* to specify a namespace other than the default one.

### Verifying Istio CA

Verify the cluster-level CA is running:

```bash
kubectl get deploy -l istio=istio-ca -n istio-system
```

```bash
NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-ca   1         1         1            1           1m
```

Istio CA is up if the "AVAILABLE" column is 1.

### Verifying service configuration

1. Verify AuthPolicy setting in ConfigMap.

   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap istio -o yaml -n istio-system | grep authPolicy | head -1
   ```

   Istio mutual TLS authentication is enabled if the line `authPolicy: MUTUAL_TLS` is uncommented (doesn't have a `#`).

## Testing the authentication setup

When running Istio with mutual TLS authentication turned on, you can use curl in one service's
envoy to send request to other services.
For example, after starting the [Bookinfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html)
sample application you can ssh into the envoy container of `productpage` service,
and send request to other services by curl. 

There are several steps:
   
1. get the productpage pod name
   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -l app=productpage
   ```
   ```bash
   NAME                              READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   productpage-v1-4184313719-5mxjc   2/2       Running   0          23h
   ```

   Make sure the pod is "Running".

1. ssh into the envoy container 
   ```bash
   kubectl exec -it productpage-v1-4184313719-5mxjc -c istio-proxy /bin/bash
   ```

1. make sure the key/cert is in /etc/certs/ directory
   ```bash
   ls /etc/certs/ 
   ```
   ```bash
   cert-chain.pem   key.pem   root-cert.pem
   ``` 
   
   Note that cert-chain.pem is envoy's cert that needs to present to the other side. key.pem is envoy's private key paired with cert-chain.pem. root-cert.pem is the root cert to verify the other side's cert. Currently we only have one CA, so all envoys have the same root-cert.pem.  
   
1. send requests to another service, for example, details.
   ```bash
   curl https://details:9080/details/0 -v --key /etc/certs/key.pem --cert /etc/certs/cert-chain.pem --cacert /etc/certs/root-cert.pem -k
   ```
   ```bash
   ...
   error fetching CN from cert:The requested data were not available.
   ...
   < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   < content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
   < content-length: 1867
   < server: envoy
   < date: Thu, 11 May 2017 18:59:42 GMT
   < x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 2
   ...
   ```
  
The service name and port are defined [here](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo.yaml).
   
Note that Istio uses [Kubernetes service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) 
as service identity, which offers stronger security than service name 
(refer [here]({{home}}/docs/concepts/security/mutual-tls.html#identity) for more information). 
Thus the certificates used in Istio do not have service name, which is the information that curl needs to verify
server identity. As a result, we use curl option '-k' to prevent the curl client from aborting when failing to
find and verify the server name (i.e., productpage.ns.svc.cluster.local) in the certificate provided by the server. 

Please check secure naming [here]({{home}}/docs/concepts/security/mutual-tls.html#workflow) for more information
about how the client verifies the server's identity in Istio.

What we are demonstrating and verifying above is that the server accepts the connection from the client. Try not giving the client `--key` and `--cert` and observe you are not allowed to connect and you do not get an HTTP 200.

## What's next

* Learn more about the design principles behind Istio's automatic mTLS authentication
  between all services in this
  [blog]({{home}}/blog/istio-auth-for-microservices.html).

Commit message:

Add note to have debug version of proxy for curl command (#1097)

_docs/tasks/security/mutual-tls.md, after:

---
title: Testing Istio mutual TLS authentication
overview: This task shows you how to verify and test Istio's automatic mutual TLS authentication.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

Through this task, you will learn how to:

* Verify the Istio mutual TLS Authentication setup

* Manually test the authentication

## Before you begin

This task assumes you have a Kubernetes cluster:

* Installed Istio with mutual TLS authentication by following
[the Istio installation task]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html).
Note to choose "enable Istio mutual TLS Authentication feature" at step 5 in
"[Installation steps]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html#installation-steps)".

## Verifying Istio's mutual TLS authentication setup

The following commands assume the services are deployed in the default namespace.
Use the parameter *-n yournamespace* to specify a namespace other than the default one.

### Verifying Istio CA

Verify the cluster-level CA is running:

```bash
kubectl get deploy -l istio=istio-ca -n istio-system
```

```bash
NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-ca   1         1         1            1           1m
```

Istio CA is up if the "AVAILABLE" column is 1.

### Verifying service configuration

1. Verify AuthPolicy setting in ConfigMap.

   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap istio -o yaml -n istio-system | grep authPolicy | head -1
   ```

   Istio mutual TLS authentication is enabled if the line `authPolicy: MUTUAL_TLS` is uncommented (doesn't have a `#`).

## Testing the authentication setup

When running Istio with mutual TLS authentication turned on, you can use curl in one service's
envoy to send request to other services.
For example, after starting the [Bookinfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html)
sample application you can ssh into the envoy container of `productpage` service,
and send request to other services by curl.

Note: by default istio proxy image does not have curl installed. To try this
feature, please add --debug flag when running kube-inject, i.e.,

```bash
kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject --debug -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo.yaml)
```

There are several steps:

1. get the productpage pod name
   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -l app=productpage
   ```
   ```bash
   NAME                              READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   productpage-v1-4184313719-5mxjc   2/2       Running   0          23h
   ```

   Make sure the pod is "Running".

1. ssh into the envoy container 
   ```bash
   kubectl exec -it productpage-v1-4184313719-5mxjc -c istio-proxy /bin/bash
   ```

1. make sure the key/cert is in /etc/certs/ directory
   ```bash
   ls /etc/certs/ 
   ```
   ```bash
   cert-chain.pem   key.pem   root-cert.pem
   ``` 
   
   Note that cert-chain.pem is envoy's cert that needs to present to the other side. key.pem is envoy's private key paired with cert-chain.pem. root-cert.pem is the root cert to verify the other side's cert. Currently we only have one CA, so all envoys have the same root-cert.pem.  
   
1. send requests to another service, for example, details.
   ```bash
   curl https://details:9080/details/0 -v --key /etc/certs/key.pem --cert /etc/certs/cert-chain.pem --cacert /etc/certs/root-cert.pem -k
   ```
   ```bash
   ...
   error fetching CN from cert:The requested data were not available.
   ...
   < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   < content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
   < content-length: 1867
   < server: envoy
   < date: Thu, 11 May 2017 18:59:42 GMT
   < x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 2
   ...
   ```
  
The service name and port are defined [here](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo.yaml).
   
Note that Istio uses [Kubernetes service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) 
as service identity, which offers stronger security than service name 
(refer [here]({{home}}/docs/concepts/security/mutual-tls.html#identity) for more information). 
Thus the certificates used in Istio do not have service name, which is the information that curl needs to verify
server identity. As a result, we use curl option '-k' to prevent the curl client from aborting when failing to
find and verify the server name (i.e., productpage.ns.svc.cluster.local) in the certificate provided by the server. 

Please check secure naming [here]({{home}}/docs/concepts/security/mutual-tls.html#workflow) for more information
about how the client verifies the server's identity in Istio.

What we are demonstrating and verifying above is that the server accepts the connection from the client. Try not giving the client `--key` and `--cert` and observe you are not allowed to connect and you do not get an HTTP 200.

## What's next

* Learn more about the design principles behind Istio's automatic mTLS authentication
  between all services in this
  [blog]({{home}}/blog/istio-auth-for-microservices.html).
