_docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert.md, before:

---
title: Plugging in CA certificate and key
overview: This task shows how operators can plug existing certificate and key into Istio CA.

order: 60

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows how operators can plug existing certificate and key into Istio CA.

By default, the Istio CA generates self-signed CA certificate and key and uses them to sign the workload certificates.
The Istio CA can also use the operator-specified certificate and key to sign workload certificates.
This task demonstrates an example to plug certificate and key into the Istio CA.

## Before you begin

* Set up Istio by following the instructions in the
  [quick start]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html).
  Note that authentication should be enabled at step 5 in the
  [installation steps]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html#installation-steps).

## Plugging in the existing certificate and key

Suppose we want to have Istio CA use the existing certificate `ca-cert.pem` and key `ca-key.pem`.
Furthermore, the certificate `ca-cert.pem` is signed by the root certificate `root-cert.pem`.
We would like to use `root-cert.pem` as the root certificate for Istio workloads.

In the following example,
the Istio CA certificate (`ca-cert.pem`) is different from the workloads' root certificate (`root-cert.pem`),
so the workload cannot validate the workload certificates directly from the root certificate.
The workload needs a `cert-chain.pem` file to specify the chain of trust,
which should include the certificates of all the intermediate CAs between the workloads and the root CA.
In our example, it contains the Istio CA certificate, so `cert-chain.pem` is the same as `ca-cert.pem`.
Note that if your `ca-cert.pem` is the same as `root-cert.pem`, the `cert-chain.pem` file should be empty.

These files are ready to use in the `samples/certs/` directory.

The following steps enable plugging in the certificate and key into the Istio CA:
1. Create a secret `cacert` including all the input files `ca-cert.pem`, `ca-key.pem`, `root-cert.pem` and `cert-chain.pem`:
   ```bash
   kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem \
   --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem \
   --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
   ```

1. Redeploy the Istio CA, which reads the certificates and key from the secret-mount files:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-ca-plugin-certs.yaml
   ```
   > Note: if you are using different certificate/key file or secret names,
   you need to change corresponding volume mounts and arguments in `istio-ca-plugin-certs.yaml`.

1. To make sure the workloads obtain the new certificates promptly,
   delete the secrets generated by Istio CA (named as istio.\*).
   In this example, `istio.default`. The Istio CA will issue new certificates for the workloads.
   ```bash
   kubectl delete secret istio.default
   ```

## Verifying the new certificates

In this section, we verify that the new workload certificates and root certificates are propagated.
This requires you have `openssl` installed on your machine.

1. Deploy the bookinfo application following the [instructions]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html).

1. Retrieve the mounted certificates.
   In the following, we take the ratings pod as an example, and verify the certificates mounted on the pod.

   Set the pod name to `RATINGSPOD`:
   ```bash
   RATINGSPOD=`kubectl get pods -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'`
   ```

   Run the following commands to retrieve the certificates mounted on the proxy:

   ```bash
   kubectl exec -it $RATINGSPOD -c istio-proxy -- /bin/cat /etc/certs/root-cert.pem > /tmp/pod-root-cert.pem
   ```
   The file `/tmp/pod-root-cert.pem` contains the root certificate propagated to the pod.

   ```bash
   kubectl exec -it $RATINGSPOD -c istio-proxy -- /bin/cat /etc/certs/cert-chain.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem
   ```
   The file `/tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem` contains the workload certificate and the CA certificate propagated to the pod.

1. Verify the root certificate is the same as the one specified by operator:
   ```bash
   openssl x509 -in samples/certs/root-cert.pem -text -noout > /tmp/root-cert.crt.txt
   openssl x509 -in /tmp/pod-root-cert.pem -text -noout > /tmp/pod-root-cert.crt.txt
   diff /tmp/root-cert.crt.txt /tmp/pod-root-cert.crt.txt
   ```
   Expect the output to be empty.

1. Verify the CA certificate is the same as the one specified by operator:
   ```bash
   tail -n 22 /tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.pem
   openssl x509 -in samples/certs/ca-cert.pem -text -noout > /tmp/ca-cert.crt.txt
   openssl x509 -in /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.pem -text -noout > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.crt.txt
   diff /tmp/ca-cert.crt.txt /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.crt.txt
   ```
   Expect the output to be empty.

1. Verify the certificate chain from the root certificate to the workload certificate:
   ```bash
   head -n 21 /tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem
   openssl verify -CAfile <(cat samples/certs/ca-cert.pem samples/certs/root-cert.pem) /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem
   ```
   Expect the following output:
   ```bash
   /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem: OK
   ```

## Cleanup

* To remove the secret `cacerts`:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete secret cacerts -n istio-system
  ```

* To remove the Istio components:
  ```bash
  kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio-auth.yaml
  ```

## What's next

* Read the [Istio CA arguments](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/security/cmd/istio_ca/main.go).
* Read [how the sample certificates and keys are generated](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/security/samples/plugin_ca_certs).

Commit message:

Rename Isito CA to Citadel. (#1179)

_docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert.md, after:

---
title: Plugging in root certificate, signing certificate and key
overview: This task shows how operators can configure Citadel with existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

order: 60

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows how operators can configure Citadel with existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

By default, Citadel generates self-signed root certificate and key, and uses them to sign the workload certificates.
Citadel can also use the operator-specified certificate and key to sign workload certificates, with
operator-specified root certificate. This task demonstrates an example to plug certificates and key into Citadel.

## Before you begin

* Set up Istio by following the instructions in the
  [quick start]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html).
  Note that authentication should be enabled at step 5 in the
  [installation steps]({{home}}/docs/setup/kubernetes/quick-start.html#installation-steps).

## Plugging in the existing certificate and key

Suppose we want to have Citadel use the existing signing (CA) certificate `ca-cert.pem` and key `ca-key.pem`.
Furthermore, the certificate `ca-cert.pem` is signed by the root certificate `root-cert.pem`.
We would like to use `root-cert.pem` as the root certificate for Istio workloads.

In the following example,
Citadel's signing (CA) certificate (`ca-cert.pem`) is different from root certificate (`root-cert.pem`),
so the workload cannot validate the workload certificates directly from the root certificate.
The workload needs a `cert-chain.pem` file to specify the chain of trust,
which should include the certificates of all the intermediate CAs between the workloads and the root CA.
In our example, it contains Citadel's signing certificate, so `cert-chain.pem` is the same as `ca-cert.pem`.
Note that if your `ca-cert.pem` is the same as `root-cert.pem`, the `cert-chain.pem` file should be empty.

These files are ready to use in the `samples/certs/` directory.

The following steps enable plugging in the certificates and key into Citadel:
1. Create a secret `cacert` including all the input files `ca-cert.pem`, `ca-key.pem`, `root-cert.pem` and `cert-chain.pem`:
   ```bash
   kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem \
   --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem \
   --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
   ```

1. Redeploy Citadel, which reads the certificates and key from the secret-mount files:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/istio-citadel-plugin-certs.yaml
   ```
   > Note: if you are using different certificate/key file or secret names,
   you need to change corresponding volume mounts and arguments in `istio-citadel-plugin-certs.yaml`.

1. To make sure the workloads obtain the new certificates promptly,
   delete the secrets generated by Citadel (named as istio.\*).
   In this example, `istio.default`. Citadel will issue new certificates for the workloads.
   ```bash
   kubectl delete secret istio.default
   ```

## Verifying the new certificates

In this section, we verify that the new workload certificates and root certificates are propagated.
This requires you have `openssl` installed on your machine.

1. Deploy the bookinfo application following the [instructions]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html).

1. Retrieve the mounted certificates.
   In the following, we take the ratings pod as an example, and verify the certificates mounted on the pod.

   Set the pod name to `RATINGSPOD`:
   ```bash
   RATINGSPOD=`kubectl get pods -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'`
   ```

   Run the following commands to retrieve the certificates mounted on the proxy:

   ```bash
   kubectl exec -it $RATINGSPOD -c istio-proxy -- /bin/cat /etc/certs/root-cert.pem > /tmp/pod-root-cert.pem
   ```
   The file `/tmp/pod-root-cert.pem` contains the root certificate propagated to the pod.

   ```bash
   kubectl exec -it $RATINGSPOD -c istio-proxy -- /bin/cat /etc/certs/cert-chain.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem
   ```
   The file `/tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem` contains the workload certificate and the CA certificate propagated to the pod.

1. Verify the root certificate is the same as the one specified by operator:
   ```bash
   openssl x509 -in samples/certs/root-cert.pem -text -noout > /tmp/root-cert.crt.txt
   openssl x509 -in /tmp/pod-root-cert.pem -text -noout > /tmp/pod-root-cert.crt.txt
   diff /tmp/root-cert.crt.txt /tmp/pod-root-cert.crt.txt
   ```
   Expect the output to be empty.

1. Verify the CA certificate is the same as the one specified by operator:
   ```bash
   tail -n 22 /tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.pem
   openssl x509 -in samples/certs/ca-cert.pem -text -noout > /tmp/ca-cert.crt.txt
   openssl x509 -in /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.pem -text -noout > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.crt.txt
   diff /tmp/ca-cert.crt.txt /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.crt.txt
   ```
   Expect the output to be empty.

1. Verify the certificate chain from the root certificate to the workload certificate:
   ```bash
   head -n 21 /tmp/pod-cert-chain.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem
   openssl verify -CAfile <(cat samples/certs/ca-cert.pem samples/certs/root-cert.pem) /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem
   ```
   Expect the following output:
   ```bash
   /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem: OK
   ```

## Cleanup

* To remove the secret `cacerts`:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete secret cacerts -n istio-system
  ```

* To remove the Istio components:
  ```bash
  kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/istio-auth.yaml
  ```

## What's next

* Read more about [Citadel (codename is istio\_ca) arguments]({{home}}/docs/reference/commands/istio_ca.html).
* Read [how the sample certificates and keys are generated](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/security/samples/plugin_ca_certs).
