content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/bookinfo-kubernetes/index.md, before:

---
title: Run Bookinfo with Kubernetes
overview: Deploy the Bookinfo application that uses the ratings microservice in Kubernetes.
weight: 30

---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

This module shows you an application composed of four microservices written in different programming languages: `productpage`, `details`, `ratings` and `reviews`. We call the composed application `Bookinfo`, and you can learn more about it in the [Bookinfo example](/docs/examples/bookinfo) page.

The version of the application used in the example can be viewed as the final version since the `reviews` microservice has three versions: `v1`, `v2`, `v3`.

In this module, the application only uses the `v1` version of the `reviews` microservice.
The next modules enhance the application with multiple versions of the `reviews` microservice.

## Deploy the application and a testing pod

1.  Set the value of the `NAMESPACE` environmental variable to `tutorial`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export NAMESPACE=tutorial
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Set the value of the `KUBECONFIG` environmental variable to the path of file you created in the previous module:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export KUBECONFIG=./${NAMESPACE}-user-config.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Set the `MYHOST` environmental variable to hold the URL of the application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export MYHOST=$(kubectl config view -o jsonpath={.contexts..namespace}).bookinfo.com
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Skim [`bookinfo.yaml`]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml).
    This is the Kubernetes deployment spec of the app. Notice the services and the deployments.

1.  Deploy the application to your Kubernetes cluster on the `tutorial` namespace:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -l version!=v2,version!=v3 -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
    service "details" created
    deployment "details-v1" created
    service "ratings" created
    deployment "ratings-v1" created
    service "reviews" created
    deployment "reviews-v1" created
    service "productpage" created
    deployment "productpage-v1" created
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the status of the pods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-q8rrf     1/1     Running   0          10s
    productpage-v1-c9965499-tjdjx   1/1     Running   0          8s
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-pq9kg     1/1     Running   0          9s
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-kjvxs     1/1     Running   0          9s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  After the four services achieve the `Running` status, you can scale the deployment. To let each version of each microservice run in three pods, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl scale deployments --all --replicas 3
    deployment "details-v1" scaled
    deployment "productpage-v1" scaled
    deployment "ratings-v1" scaled
    deployment "reviews-v1" scaled
    deployment "reviews-v2" scaled
    deployment "reviews-v3" scaled
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the pods status. Notice that each microservice has three pods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-fr59p     1/1     Running   0          50s
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-mksv7     1/1     Running   0          50s
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-q8rrf     1/1     Running   0          1m
    productpage-v1-c9965499-hwhcn   1/1     Running   0          50s
    productpage-v1-c9965499-nccwq   1/1     Running   0          50s
    productpage-v1-c9965499-tjdjx   1/1     Running   0          1m
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-cbdsg     1/1     Running   0          50s
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-cz6jm     1/1     Running   0          50s
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-pq9kg     1/1     Running   0          1m
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-5wt8g     1/1     Running   0          49s
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-kjvxs     1/1     Running   0          1m
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-r55tl     1/1     Running   0          49s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy a testing pod, [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep), to use it for sending
    requests to your microservices:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  To confirm that the Bookinfo application is running, send a request to it with a curl command from your testing pod:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep -- curl productpage:9080/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    {{< /text >}}

## Enable external access to the application

Once your application is running, enable clients from outside the cluster to access it. Such clients are known as mesh-external clients. Once you
configure the steps below successfully, you can access the application from your laptop's browser.

{{< warning >}}

If your cluster runs on GKE, change the `productpage` service type to `LoadBalancer` before you create your Kubernetes ingress, as shown in this example:

{{< text yaml >}}
selector:
app: productpage
sessionAffinity: None
type: LoadBalancer
{{< /text >}}

{{< /warning >}}

### Configure the Kubernetes Ingress resource and access your application's webpage

1.  Create a Kubernetes Ingress resource:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: bookinfo
    spec:
      rules:
      - host: $MYHOST
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /productpage
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
          - path: /login
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
          - path: /logout
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

### Update your `/etc/hosts` configuration file

1.  Append the output of the following command to `/etc/hosts`. You should have a
    [Superuser](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superuser) privilege and probably use
    [`sudo`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudo) to run the command.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ echo $(kubectl get ingress istio-system -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{..ip} {..host}') $(kubectl get ingress bookinfo -o jsonpath='{..host}')
    {{< /text >}}

### Access your application

1.  Access the application's home page from the command line:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s $MYHOST/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Paste the output of the following command in your browser address bar:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ echo http://$MYHOST/productpage
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see the following webpage:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="bookinfo.png"
        caption="Bookinfo Web Application"
        >}}

1.  Observe how microservices call each other. For example, `reviews` calls the `ratings` microservice using the
    `http://ratings:9080/ratings` URL.
    See the [code of `reviews`]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/reviews/reviews-application/src/main/java/application/rest/LibertyRestEndpoint.java):

    {{< text java >}}
    private final static String ratings_service = "http://ratings:9080/ratings";
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Set an infinite loop in a separate terminal window to send traffic to your application to simulate the
    constant user traffic in the real world:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ while :; do curl -s $MYHOST/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; sleep 1; done
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

You are ready to [test the application](/docs/examples/microservices-istio/production-testing).

Commit message:

Tutorial fixes: single microservice, docker, Kubernetes (#6171)
* remove "on the code" from "note the following elements"

* move "from a different terminal session" to the previous curl command

use terminal window instead of terminal session, since window is more clear

* rewrite the last sentence of the "Run raitings in Docker" module

* rewrite the sentence about the final version in the Bookinfo example

* remove setting NAMESPACE and KUBECONFIG since they were set in "setup local computer"

* environmental variable -> environment variable

see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable

* the Bookinfo example page -> the Bookinfo example

* in the page -> on the page

* remove "on the tutorial namespace"

all the operations are performed on the tutorial namespace anyway

* remove "Such clients are known as mesh-external clients"

there is no mesh introduced yet, and this sentence does add much information

* use kubectl patch instead of editing yaml

for GKE, to change productpage's type to LoadBalancer

* sudo is required to edit /etc/hosts, not to run the echo command

* add /static to Kubernetes Ingress Gateway

content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/bookinfo-kubernetes/index.md, after:

---
title: Run Bookinfo with Kubernetes
overview: Deploy the Bookinfo application that uses the ratings microservice in Kubernetes.
weight: 30

---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

This module shows you an application composed of four microservices written in different programming languages: `productpage`, `details`, `ratings` and `reviews`. We call the composed application `Bookinfo`, and you can learn more about it on the
[Bookinfo example](/docs/examples/bookinfo) page.

The [Bookinfo example](/docs/examples/bookinfo) shows the final state of the application, in which the `reviews` microservice has three versions: `v1`, `v2`, `v3`. In this module, the application only uses the `v1` version of the
`reviews` microservice. The next modules enhance the application by deploying newer versions of the `reviews`
microservice.

## Deploy the application and a testing pod

1.  Set the `MYHOST` environment variable to hold the URL of the application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export MYHOST=$(kubectl config view -o jsonpath={.contexts..namespace}).bookinfo.com
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Skim [`bookinfo.yaml`]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml).
    This is the Kubernetes deployment spec of the app. Notice the services and the deployments.

1.  Deploy the application to your Kubernetes cluster:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -l version!=v2,version!=v3 -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
    service "details" created
    deployment "details-v1" created
    service "ratings" created
    deployment "ratings-v1" created
    service "reviews" created
    deployment "reviews-v1" created
    service "productpage" created
    deployment "productpage-v1" created
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the status of the pods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-q8rrf     1/1     Running   0          10s
    productpage-v1-c9965499-tjdjx   1/1     Running   0          8s
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-pq9kg     1/1     Running   0          9s
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-kjvxs     1/1     Running   0          9s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  After the four services achieve the `Running` status, you can scale the deployment. To let each version of each microservice run in three pods, execute the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl scale deployments --all --replicas 3
    deployment "details-v1" scaled
    deployment "productpage-v1" scaled
    deployment "ratings-v1" scaled
    deployment "reviews-v1" scaled
    deployment "reviews-v2" scaled
    deployment "reviews-v3" scaled
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the pods status. Notice that each microservice has three pods:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get pods
    NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-fr59p     1/1     Running   0          50s
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-mksv7     1/1     Running   0          50s
    details-v1-6d86fd9949-q8rrf     1/1     Running   0          1m
    productpage-v1-c9965499-hwhcn   1/1     Running   0          50s
    productpage-v1-c9965499-nccwq   1/1     Running   0          50s
    productpage-v1-c9965499-tjdjx   1/1     Running   0          1m
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-cbdsg     1/1     Running   0          50s
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-cz6jm     1/1     Running   0          50s
    ratings-v1-7bf577cb77-pq9kg     1/1     Running   0          1m
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-5wt8g     1/1     Running   0          49s
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-kjvxs     1/1     Running   0          1m
    reviews-v1-77c65dc5c6-r55tl     1/1     Running   0          49s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy a testing pod, [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep), to use it for sending
    requests to your microservices:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

1.  To confirm that the Bookinfo application is running, send a request to it with a curl command from your testing pod:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep -- curl productpage:9080/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    {{< /text >}}

## Enable external access to the application

Once your application is running, enable clients from outside the cluster to access it. Once you configure the steps
below successfully, you can access the application from your laptop's browser.

{{< warning >}}

If your cluster runs on GKE, change the `productpage` service type to `LoadBalancer`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl patch svc productpage -p '{"spec": {"type": "LoadBalancer"}}'
service/productpage patched
{{< /text >}}

{{< /warning >}}

### Configure the Kubernetes Ingress resource and access your application's webpage

1.  Create a Kubernetes Ingress resource:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: bookinfo
    spec:
      rules:
      - host: $MYHOST
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /productpage
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
          - path: /login
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
          - path: /logout
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
          - path: /static
            backend:
              serviceName: productpage
              servicePort: 9080
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

### Update your `/etc/hosts` configuration file

1.  Append the output of the following command to `/etc/hosts`. You should have a
    [Superuser](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superuser) privilege and probably use
    [`sudo`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudo) to edit `/etc/hosts`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ echo $(kubectl get ingress istio-system -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{..ip} {..host}') $(kubectl get ingress bookinfo -o jsonpath='{..host}')
    {{< /text >}}

### Access your application

1.  Access the application's home page from the command line:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s $MYHOST/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Paste the output of the following command in your browser address bar:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ echo http://$MYHOST/productpage
    {{< /text >}}

    You should see the following webpage:

    {{< image width="80%"
        link="bookinfo.png"
        caption="Bookinfo Web Application"
        >}}

1.  Observe how microservices call each other. For example, `reviews` calls the `ratings` microservice using the
    `http://ratings:9080/ratings` URL.
    See the [code of `reviews`]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/reviews/reviews-application/src/main/java/application/rest/LibertyRestEndpoint.java):

    {{< text java >}}
    private final static String ratings_service = "http://ratings:9080/ratings";
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Set an infinite loop in a separate terminal window to send traffic to your application to simulate the
    constant user traffic in the real world:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ while :; do curl -s $MYHOST/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; sleep 1; done
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

You are ready to [test the application](/docs/examples/microservices-istio/production-testing).
