content/zh/blog/2018/hp/index.md, before:

---
title: Istio 是惠普 FitStation 平台的改变者
description: 惠普如何在 Istio 上构建其下一代鞋类个性化平台。
subtitle: 惠普如何在 Istio 上构建其下一代鞋类个性化平台
publishdate: 2018-07-31
attribution: Steven Ceuppens, Chief Software Architect @ HP FitStation, Open Source Advocate & Contributor
---

惠普的 FitStation 团队坚信， 未来的 Kubernetes、BPF 和服务网络是云基础设施的下一个标准。
我们也很高兴看到 Istio 即将推出其官方的 Istio 1.0 版本 - 这要归功于 2017 年 5 月从 Google、IBM 和 Lyft 开始的联合合作。

在 FitStation 大规模和渐进式云平台的开发过程中，Istio 、Cilium 和 Kubernetes 的技术提供了大量机会，使我们的系统更加健壮和易于扩展。
 Istio 在创建可靠和动态的网络通信方面改变了游戏规则。

[由惠普提供支持的 FitStation](http://www.fitstation.com) 是一个技术平台，可捕获 3D 生物识别数据，设计个性化鞋类，
完美贴合个人足部尺寸和形状以及步态轮廓。它使用 3D 扫描，压力感应，3D 打印和可变密度注塑成型来制造独特的鞋类。
Brooks、Steitz Secura 或 Superfeet 等鞋类品牌正在连接 FitStation，以打造下一代高性能运动鞋，专业鞋和医用鞋。

FitStation 建立在对用户生物识别数据的最终安全性和隐私承诺的基础上。Istio 是我们在云中实现数据传输的基石。
通过在基础架构级别管理这些方面，我们专注于解决业务问题，而不是花时间在安全服务通信的单独实现上。
使用 Istio 可以大大降低维护大量库和服务的复杂性，从而提供安全的通信服务。

作为使用 Istio 1.0 的额外好处，我们获得了网络可见性，指标和开箱即用的追踪。这极大地改善了我们开发和 DevOps 团队的的决策和响应质量
。团队深入了解包括新应用程序和传统应用程序在内的整个平台的网络通信。 Cilium 与 Envoy 的整合，
让 Istio 服务网格网络通信能力的性能取得了显著提升，同时还提供了内核驱动的细粒度 L7 网络安全层。这归功于 Cilium 为 Istio 提供的 BPF 功能。
我们认为未来将推动 Linux 的内核安全。

跟随 Istio 的成长一直非常令人兴奋。我们已经能够看到不同开发版本的性能和稳定性的明显改进。
版本 0.7 和 0.8 之间的改进使我们的团队对 1.0 版本感到满意，我们可以说 Istio 现在已经准备好用于实际生产。

我们期待着 Istio 、Envoy 、Cilium 和 CNCF 充满希望的路线图。

Commit message:

zh-translation: initialize the translation content (#5305)
* zh-translation: initialize the translation content

- Restart the Chinese translation precess, refer to https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/5250
- Translation progress is tracked on https://github.com/servicemesher/istio-official-translation

content/zh/blog/2018/hp/index.md, after:

---
title: Istio a Game Changer for HP's FitStation Platform
description: How HP is building its next-generation footwear personalization platform on Istio.
subtitle: How HP is building its next-generation footwear personalization platform on Istio
publishdate: 2018-07-31
attribution: Steven Ceuppens, Chief Software Architect @ HP FitStation, Open Source Advocate & Contributor
target_release: 1.0
---

The FitStation team at HP strongly believes in the future of Kubernetes, BPF and service-mesh as the next standards in cloud infrastructure. We are also very happy to see Istio coming to its official Istio 1.0 release -- thanks to the joint collaboration that started at Google, IBM and Lyft beginning in May 2017.

Throughout the development of FitStation’s large scale and progressive cloud platform, Istio, Cilium and Kubernetes technologies have delivered a multitude of opportunities to make our systems more robust and scalable. Istio was a game changer in creating reliable and dynamic network communication.

[FitStation powered by HP](http://www.fitstation.com) is a technology platform that captures 3D biometric data to design personalized footwear to perfectly fit individual foot size and shape as well as gait profile. It uses 3D scanning, pressure sensing, 3D printing and variable density injection molding to create unique footwear. Footwear brands such as Brooks, Steitz Secura or Superfeet are connecting to FitStation to build their next generation of high performance sports, professional and medical shoes.

FitStation is built on the promise of ultimate security and privacy for users' biometric data. ISTIO is the cornerstone to make that possible for data-at-flight within our cloud. By managing these aspects at the infrastructure level, we focused on solving business problems instead of spending time on individual implementations of secure service communication. Using Istio allowed us to dramatically reduce the complexity of maintaining a multitude of libraries and services to provide secure service communication.

As a bonus benefit of Istio 1.0, we gained network visibility, metrics and tracing out of the box. This radically improved decision-making and response quality for our development
and devops teams. The team got in-depth insight in the network communication across the entire platform, both for new as well as legacy applications. The integration of Cilium
with Envoy delivered a remarkable performance benefit on Istio service mesh communication, combined with a fine-grained kernel driven L7 network security layer. This was due to the powers of BPF brought to Istio by Cilium. We believe this will drive the future of Linux kernel security.

It has been very exciting to follow Istio’s growth. We have been able to see clear improvements of performance and stability over the different development versions. The improvements between version 0.7 and 0.8 made our teams feel comfortable with version 1.0, we can state that Istio is now ready for real production usage.

We are looking forward to the promising roadmaps of Istio, Envoy, Cilium and CNCF.
