content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/prereq/index.md, before:

---
title: Prerequisites
overview: Check the prerequisites for this tutorial.
weight: 1
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

For this tutorial you need a Kubernetes cluster with a namespace for the
tutorial's modules and a local computer to run the commands. If you have your
own cluster, ensure your cluster satisfies the prerequisites.

If you are in a workshop and the instructors provide a cluster, let
them handle the cluster prerequisites, while you skip ahead to setup your local
computer.

## Kubernetes cluster

Ensure the following conditions are met:

- You have administrator privileges on a Kubernetes cluster.
- You can create a namespace in the cluster for each participant.

## Local computer

Ensure the following conditions are met:

- You have write access to the local computer's `/etc/hosts` file.
- You have the ability and permission to download, install and run command line tools on the local computer.
- You have Internet connectivity for the duration of the tutorial.

Commit message:

Add tutorial modules for enabling Istio, mTLS, versioning, gateway, logging (#6372)
* Added new modules

* Add more modules

* Grammar tweaks

* Tutorial fixes

* Fixed pathing errors and desc.

* Fixed broken steps and typos

* Restore download section

* fixed broken links

* Fixed more broken links

* Fixed linter issue

* PR review fixes

* Remove unwanted json file

* Lots of review fixes

content/en/docs/examples/microservices-istio/prereq/index.md, after:

---
title: Prerequisites
overview: Check the prerequisites for this tutorial.
weight: 1
---

{{< boilerplate work-in-progress >}}

For this tutorial you need a Kubernetes cluster with a namespace for the
tutorial's modules and a local computer to run the commands. If you have your
own cluster, ensure your cluster satisfies the prerequisites.

If you are in a workshop and the instructors provide a cluster, let
them handle the cluster prerequisites, while you skip ahead to setup your local
computer.

## Kubernetes cluster

Ensure the following conditions are met:

- You have administrator privileges to the virtual machine running a Kubernetes cluster named
  `tutorial-cluster` and administrator privileges to the virtual machine it runs on.
- You can create a namespace in the cluster for each participant.

## Local computer

Ensure the following conditions are met:

- You have write access to the local computer's `/etc/hosts` file.
- You have the ability and permission to download, install and run command line tools on the local computer.
- You have Internet connectivity for the duration of the tutorial.
