community/index.md, before:

---
title: Community
overview: Information on the various ways to participate and interact with the Istio community.
layout: community
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

# Our community

Istio is an open source project with an active community that supports its use and on-going development. We'd love for you
to join us and get involved!

There are quite a few ways to get in touch with the community, see below to learn the
best approach for different cases. See [here](/bugs/) if you're trying to figure out how to report
a bug in Istio.

|![Stack Overflow]({{home}}/img/stackoverflow.png)|[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/istio) is for practical questions and curated answers on deploying, configuring, and using Istio.
|![Mailing Lists]({{home}}/img/group.png)|Join the [istio-users](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-users) mailing list to get announcements, participate in discussions, and get help troubleshooting problems using Istio. The [istio-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-dev) mailing lists is there for help developers hacking on Istio's code.
|![Slack]({{home}}/img/slack.png)|[Slack](https://istio.slack.com) is where to go if you have something urgent you need help with. You can have interactive conversations with members of the community and development team.
|![GitHub]({{home}}/img/github.png)|[GitHub](https://github.com/istio) is where development takes place on Istio code.

Commit message:

Add link to istio-announce mailing list.
Add a few missing CSS styles that dropped off in a recent refactor.

community/index.md, after:

---
title: Community
overview: Information on the various ways to participate and interact with the Istio community.
layout: community
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

# Our community

Istio is an open source project with an active community that supports its use and on-going development. We'd love for you
to join us and get involved!

There are quite a few ways to get in touch with the community, see below to learn the
best approach for different cases. See [here](/bugs/) if you're trying to figure out how to report
a bug in Istio.

|![Stack Overflow]({{home}}/img/stackoverflow.png)|[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/istio) is for practical questions and curated answers on deploying, configuring, and using Istio.
|![Mailing Lists]({{home}}/img/group.png)|Join the [istio-users](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-users) mailing list to participate in discussions, and get help troubleshooting problems using Istio. The [istio-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-announce) mailing list is where you can get announcements regarding Istio. And finally, the [istio-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/istio-dev) mailing list is there to  help developers hacking on Istio's code.
|![Slack]({{home}}/img/slack.png)|[Slack](https://istio.slack.com) is where to go if you have something urgent you need help with. You can have interactive conversations with members of the community and development team.
|![GitHub]({{home}}/img/github.png)|[GitHub](https://github.com/istio) is where development takes place on Istio code.
