content/en/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress_sni_monitoring_and_policies/index.md, before:

---
title: Monitoring and Policies for TLS Egress
description: Describes how to configure SNI monitoring and apply policies on TLS egress traffic.
keywords: [traffic-management,egress,telemetry,policies]
weight: 51
aliases:
  - /docs/examples/advanced-gateways/egress_sni_monitoring_and_policies/
---

The [Configure Egress Traffic using Wildcard Hosts](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/) example
describes how to enable TLS egress traffic for a set of hosts in a common domain, in that case `*.wikipedia.org`. This
example extends that example to show how to configure SNI monitoring and apply policies on TLS egress traffic.

{{< boilerplate before-you-begin-egress >}}

*  [Deploy Istio egress gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/#deploy-istio-egress-gateway).

*  [Enable Envoy’s access logging](/docs/tasks/observability/logs/access-log/#enable-envoy-s-access-logging)

*  Configure traffic to `*.wikipedia.org` by following
   [the steps](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/#wildcard-configuration-for-arbitrary-domains) in
   [Configure Egress Traffic using Wildcard Hosts](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/) example,
   **with mutual TLS enabled**.

    {{< warning >}}
    Policy enforcement **must** be enabled in your cluster for this task. Follow the steps in
    [Enabling Policy Enforcement](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/enabling-policy/) to ensure that policy enforcement is enabled.
    {{< /warning >}}

## SNI monitoring and access policies

Since you configured the egress traffic to flow through the egress gateway, you can apply monitoring and access policy
enforcement on the egress traffic, **securely**. In this section you will define a log entry and an access policy for
the egress traffic to _*.wikipedia.org_.

1.  Create logging configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send HTTPS requests to
    [https://en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org) and [https://de.wikipedia.org](https://de.wikipedia.org):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie</title>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the mixer log. If Istio is deployed in the `istio-system` namespace, the command to print the log is:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system logs -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -c mixer | grep 'egress-access'
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Define a policy that allows access to the hostnames matching `*.wikipedia.org` except for Wikipedia in
    English:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-wikipedia.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send an HTTPS request to the blacklisted [Wikipedia in English](https://en.wikipedia.org):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl -v https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page'
    ...
    curl: (35) Unknown SSL protocol error in connection to en.wikipedia.org:443
    command terminated with exit code 35
    {{< /text >}}

    Access to Wikipedia in English is blocked according to the policy you defined.

1.  Send HTTPS requests to some other Wikipedia sites, for example [https://es.wikipedia.org](https://es.wikipedia.org) and
    [https://de.wikipedia.org](https://de.wikipedia.org):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"'
    <title>Wikipedia, la enciclopedia libre</title>
    <title>Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie</title>
    {{< /text >}}

    Access to Wikipedia sites in other languages is allowed, as expected.

### Cleanup of monitoring and policy enforcement

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-wikipedia.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

## Monitor the SNI and the source identity, and enforce access policies based on them

Since you enabled mutual TLS between the sidecar proxies and the egress gateway, you can monitor the [service identity](/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/#citadel) of the applications that access external services, and enforce policies
based on the identities of the traffic source.
In Istio on Kubernetes, the identities are based on
[Service Accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). In this
subsection, you deploy two _sleep_ containers, `sleep-us` and `sleep-canada` under two service accounts,
`sleep-us` and `sleep-canada`, respectively. Then you define a policy that allows applications with the `sleep-us`
identity to access the English and the Spanish versions of Wikipedia, and services with `sleep-canada` identity to
access the English and the French versions.

1.  Deploy two _sleep_ containers, `sleep-us` and `sleep-canada`, with `sleep-us` and `sleep-canada` service
    accounts, respectively:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ sed 's/: sleep/: sleep-us/g' @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
    $ sed 's/: sleep/: sleep-canada/g' @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
    serviceaccount "sleep-us" created
    service "sleep-us" created
    deployment "sleep-us" created
    serviceaccount "sleep-canada" created
    service "sleep-canada" created
    deployment "sleep-canada" created
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create logging configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send HTTPS requests to Wikipedia sites in English, German, Spanish and French, from `sleep-us`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep-us -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep-us -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Accueil_principal | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie</title>
    <title>Wikipedia, la enciclopedia libre</title>
    <title>Wikipédia, l'encyclopédie libre</title>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the mixer log. If Istio is deployed in the `istio-system` namespace, the command to print the log is:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system logs -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -c mixer | grep 'egress-access'
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:55.559093Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"en.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:56.166227Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"de.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:56.779842Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"es.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:57.413908Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"fr.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {{< /text >}}

    Note the `requestedServerName` attribute, and `sourcePrincipal`, it must be `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us`.

1.  Define a policy that will allow access to Wikipedia in English and Spanish for applications with the `sleep-us`
    service account and to Wikipedia in English and French for applications with the `sleep-canada` service account.
    Access to other Wikipedia sites will be blocked.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-serviceaccount.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Resend HTTPS requests to Wikipedia sites in English, German, Spanish and French, from `sleep-us`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep-us -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep-us -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Accueil_principal | grep -o "<title>.*</title>";:'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipedia, la enciclopedia libre</title>
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that only the allowed Wikipedia sites for `sleep-us` service account are allowed, namely Wikipedia in English
    and Spanish.

    {{< tip >}}
    It may take several minutes for the Mixer policy components to synchronize on the new policy. In case you want to
    quickly demonstrate the new policy without waiting until the synchronization is complete, delete the Mixer policy pods:
    {{< /tip >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete pod -n istio-system -l istio-mixer-type=policy
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Resend HTTPS requests to Wikipedia sites in English, German, Spanish and French, from `sleep-canada`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep-canada -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep-canada -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Accueil_principal | grep -o "<title>.*</title>";:'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipédia, l'encyclopédie libre</title>
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that only the allowed Wikipedia sites for `sleep-canada` service account are allowed, namely Wikipedia in
    English and French.

### Cleanup of monitoring and policy enforcement of SNI and source identity

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete service sleep-us sleep-canada
$ kubectl delete deployment sleep-us sleep-canada
$ kubectl delete serviceaccount sleep-us sleep-canada
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-serviceaccount.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

## Cleanup

1.  Perform
    [the cleanup steps](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/#cleanup-wildcard-configuration-for-arbitrary-domains)
    from [Configure Egress Traffic using Wildcard Hosts](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/)
    example.

1.  Shutdown the [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep) service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

Commit message:

[Release-1.5] remove mixer references from egress tasks and deprecate where needed (#6734)
* remove mixer references from egress tasks and deprecate where needed

* lint fixes

* Update content/en/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress_sni_monitoring_and_policies/index.md

Co-Authored-By: mandarjog <mandarjog@gmail.com>

* Update content/en/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress_sni_monitoring_and_policies/index.md

Co-Authored-By: Eric Van Norman <ericvn@us.ibm.com>

Co-authored-by: Francois Pesce <fpesce@google.com>
Co-authored-by: mandarjog <mandarjog@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Eric Van Norman <ericvn@us.ibm.com>

content/en/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress_sni_monitoring_and_policies/index.md, after:

---
title: Monitoring and Policies for TLS Egress with Mixer (Deprecated)
description: Describes how to configure SNI monitoring and apply policies on TLS egress traffic.
keywords: [traffic-management,egress,telemetry,policies]
weight: 51
aliases:
  - /docs/examples/advanced-gateways/egress_sni_monitoring_and_policies/
---

{{< warning >}}
The mixer policy is deprecated in Istio 1.5 and not recommended for production usage.

* Rate limiting: Consider using [Envoy native rate limiting](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.13.0/intro/arch_overview/other_features/global_rate_limiting)
instead of mixer rate limiting. Istio will add support for the native rate limiting API through the Istio extensions API.

* Control headers and routing: Consider using Envoy [`ext_authz` filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.13.0/intro/arch_overview/security/ext_authz_filter),
[`lua` filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.13.0/configuration/http/http_filters/lua_filter),
or write a filter using the [`Envoy-wasm` sandbox](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-wasm/tree/master/test/extensions/filters/http/wasm/test_data).

* Denials and White/Black Listing: Please use the [Authorization Policy](/docs/concepts/security/#authorization) for
enforcing access control to a workload.
{{< /warning >}}

The [Configure Egress Traffic using Wildcard Hosts](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/) example
describes how to enable TLS egress traffic for a set of hosts in a common domain, in that case `*.wikipedia.org`. This
example extends that example to show how to configure SNI monitoring and apply policies on TLS egress traffic.

{{< boilerplate before-you-begin-egress >}}

*  [Deploy Istio egress gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/#deploy-istio-egress-gateway).

*  [Enable Envoy’s access logging](/docs/tasks/observability/logs/access-log/#enable-envoy-s-access-logging)

*  Configure traffic to `*.wikipedia.org` by following
   [the steps](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/#wildcard-configuration-for-arbitrary-domains) in
   [Configure Egress Traffic using Wildcard Hosts](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/) example,
   **with mutual TLS enabled**.

    {{< warning >}}
    Policy enforcement **must** be enabled in your cluster for this task. Follow the steps in
    [Enabling Policy Enforcement](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/enabling-policy/) to ensure that policy enforcement is enabled.
    {{< /warning >}}

## SNI monitoring and access policies

Since you configured the egress traffic to flow through the egress gateway, you can apply monitoring and access policy
enforcement on the egress traffic, **securely**. In this section you will define a log entry and an access policy for
the egress traffic to _*.wikipedia.org_.

1.  Create logging configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send HTTPS requests to
    [https://en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org) and [https://de.wikipedia.org](https://de.wikipedia.org):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie</title>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the mixer log. If Istio is deployed in the `istio-system` namespace, the command to print the log is:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system logs -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -c mixer | grep 'egress-access'
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Define a policy that allows access to the hostnames matching `*.wikipedia.org` except for Wikipedia in
    English:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-wikipedia.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send an HTTPS request to the blacklisted [Wikipedia in English](https://en.wikipedia.org):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl -v https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page'
    ...
    curl: (35) Unknown SSL protocol error in connection to en.wikipedia.org:443
    command terminated with exit code 35
    {{< /text >}}

    Access to Wikipedia in English is blocked according to the policy you defined.

1.  Send HTTPS requests to some other Wikipedia sites, for example [https://es.wikipedia.org](https://es.wikipedia.org) and
    [https://de.wikipedia.org](https://de.wikipedia.org):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SOURCE_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"'
    <title>Wikipedia, la enciclopedia libre</title>
    <title>Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie</title>
    {{< /text >}}

    Access to Wikipedia sites in other languages is allowed, as expected.

### Cleanup of monitoring and policy enforcement

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-wikipedia.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

## Monitor the SNI and the source identity, and enforce access policies based on them

Since you enabled mutual TLS between the sidecar proxies and the egress gateway, you can monitor the [service identity](/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/#citadel) of the applications that access external services, and enforce policies
based on the identities of the traffic source.
In Istio on Kubernetes, the identities are based on
[Service Accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). In this
subsection, you deploy two _sleep_ containers, `sleep-us` and `sleep-canada` under two service accounts,
`sleep-us` and `sleep-canada`, respectively. Then you define a policy that allows applications with the `sleep-us`
identity to access the English and the Spanish versions of Wikipedia, and services with `sleep-canada` identity to
access the English and the French versions.

1.  Deploy two _sleep_ containers, `sleep-us` and `sleep-canada`, with `sleep-us` and `sleep-canada` service
    accounts, respectively:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ sed 's/: sleep/: sleep-us/g' @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
    $ sed 's/: sleep/: sleep-canada/g' @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@ | kubectl apply -f -
    serviceaccount "sleep-us" created
    service "sleep-us" created
    deployment "sleep-us" created
    serviceaccount "sleep-canada" created
    service "sleep-canada" created
    deployment "sleep-canada" created
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create logging configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send HTTPS requests to Wikipedia sites in English, German, Spanish and French, from `sleep-us`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep-us -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep-us -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Accueil_principal | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie</title>
    <title>Wikipedia, la enciclopedia libre</title>
    <title>Wikipédia, l'encyclopédie libre</title>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check the mixer log. If Istio is deployed in the `istio-system` namespace, the command to print the log is:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system logs -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -c mixer | grep 'egress-access'
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:55.559093Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"en.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:56.166227Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"de.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:56.779842Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"es.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {"level":"info","time":"2019-01-10T17:33:57.413908Z","instance":"egress-access.instance.istio-system","connectionEvent":"open","destinationApp":"","requestedServerName":"fr.wikipedia.org","source":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy","sourceNamespace":"default","sourcePrincipal":"cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us","sourceWorkload":"istio-egressgateway-with-sni-proxy"}
    {{< /text >}}

    Note the `requestedServerName` attribute, and `sourcePrincipal`, it must be `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/sleep-us`.

1.  Define a policy that will allow access to Wikipedia in English and Spanish for applications with the `sleep-us`
    service account and to Wikipedia in English and French for applications with the `sleep-canada` service account.
    Access to other Wikipedia sites will be blocked.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-serviceaccount.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Resend HTTPS requests to Wikipedia sites in English, German, Spanish and French, from `sleep-us`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep-us -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep-us -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Accueil_principal | grep -o "<title>.*</title>";:'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipedia, la enciclopedia libre</title>
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that only the allowed Wikipedia sites for `sleep-us` service account are allowed, namely Wikipedia in English
    and Spanish.

    {{< tip >}}
    It may take several minutes for the Mixer policy components to synchronize on the new policy. In case you want to
    quickly demonstrate the new policy without waiting until the synchronization is complete, delete the Mixer policy pods:
    {{< /tip >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete pod -n istio-system -l istio-mixer-type=policy
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Resend HTTPS requests to Wikipedia sites in English, German, Spanish and French, from `sleep-canada`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep-canada -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -c sleep-canada -- sh -c 'curl -s https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hauptseite | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Portada | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"; curl -s https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Accueil_principal | grep -o "<title>.*</title>";:'
    <title>Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia</title>
    <title>Wikipédia, l'encyclopédie libre</title>
    {{< /text >}}

    Note that only the allowed Wikipedia sites for `sleep-canada` service account are allowed, namely Wikipedia in
    English and French.

### Cleanup of monitoring and policy enforcement of SNI and source identity

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete service sleep-us sleep-canada
$ kubectl delete deployment sleep-us sleep-canada
$ kubectl delete serviceaccount sleep-us sleep-canada
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/telemetry/sni-logging.yaml@
$ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/policy/sni-serviceaccount.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

## Cleanup

1.  Perform
    [the cleanup steps](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/#cleanup-wildcard-configuration-for-arbitrary-domains)
    from [Configure Egress Traffic using Wildcard Hosts](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/)
    example.

1.  Shutdown the [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep) service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}
