content/about/contribute/writing-a-new-topic/index.md, before:

---
title: Writing a New Topic
description: Explains the mechanics of creating new documentation pages.
weight: 30
aliases:
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/writing-a-new-topic.html
keywords: [contribute]
---

This page shows how to create a new Istio documentation topic.

## Before you begin

You first need to create a fork of the Istio documentation repository as described in
[Working with GitHub](/about/contribute/github/).

## Choosing a page type

As you prepare to write a new topic, think about which of these page types
is the best fit for your content:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Concept</td>
    <td>A concept page explains some significant aspect of Istio. For example, a concept page might describe the
    Mixer's configuration model and explain some of its subtleties.
    Typically, concept pages don't include sequences of steps, but instead provide links to
    tasks that do.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Reference</td>
    <td>A reference page provides exhaustive lists of things like API parameters,
     command-line options, configuration settings, and procedures.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Examples</td>
    <td>An example page describes a fully working stand-alone example highlighting a particular set of features. Examples
    must have easy to follow setup and usage instructions so users can quickly run the sample
    themselves and experiment with changing the example to explore the system.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Task</td>
    <td>A task page shows how to do a single thing, typically by giving a short sequence of steps. Task pages have minimal
    explanation, but often provide links to conceptual topics that provide related background and knowledge.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Setup</td>
    <td>A setup page is similar to a task page, except that it is focused on installation
    activities.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Blog Post</td>
    <td>
      A blog post is a timely article on Istio or products and technologies related to it.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Naming a topic

Choose a title for your topic that has the keywords you want search engines to find.
Create a filename for your topic that uses the words in your title, separated by hyphens,
all in lower case.

## Updating the front matter

Every documentation file needs to start with
[front matter](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/).
The front matter is a block of YAML that is between the
triple-dashed lines at the top of each file. Here's the
chunk of front matter you should start with:

{{< text yaml >}}
---
title: <title>
description: <description>
weight: <weight>
keywords: [keyword1,keyword2,...]
---
{{< /text >}}

Copy the above at the start of your new markdown file and update the information fields.
The available front matter fields are:

|Field          | Description
|---------------|------------
|`title`        | The short title of the page
|`description`  | A one-line description of what the topic is about
|`weight`       | An integer used to determine the sort order of this page relative to other pages in the same directory
|`keywords`     | An array of keywords describing the page, used to create the web of See Also links
|`draft`        | When true, prevents the page from showing up in any navigation area
|`publishdate`  | For blog posts, indicates the date of publication of the post
|`subtitle`     | For blog posts, supplies an optional subtitle to be displayed below the main title
|`attribution`  | For blog posts, supplies an optional author's name
|`toc`          | Set this to false to prevent the page from having a table of contents generated for it
|`force_inline_toc` | Set this to true to force the generated table of contents from being inserted inline in the text instead of in a sidebar

## Adding images

Put image files in the same directory as your markdown file. The preferred image format is SVG.

Within markdown, use the following sequence to add the image:

{{< text html >}}
{{</* image width="75%" ratio="69.52%"
    link="./myfile.svg"
    alt="Alternate text to display when the image is not available"
    title="A tooltip displayed when hovering over the image"
    caption="A caption displayed under the image"
    */>}}
{{< /text >}}

The `width`, `ratio`, `link` and `caption` values are required. If the `title` value isn't
supplied, it'll default to the same as `caption`. If the `alt` value is not supplied, it'll
default to `title` or if that's not defined, to `caption`.

`width` represents the percentage of space used by the image
relative to the surrounding text. `ratio` must be manually calculated using (image height / image width) * 100.

## Adding icons & emojis

You can embed some common icons in your content using:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* warning_icon */>}}
{{</* idea_icon */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which look like {{< warning_icon >}} and {{< idea_icon >}}

In addition, you can embed an emoji in your content using a sequence such as <code>:</code><code>sailboat</code><code>:</code>
which looks like :sailboat:. Here's a handy [cheat sheet of the supported emojis](https://www.webpagefx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/).

## Linking to other pages

There are three types of links that can be included in documentation. Each uses a different
way to indicate the link target:

1. **Internet Link**. You use classic URL syntax, preferably with the HTTPS protocol, to reference
files on the Internet:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [see here](https://mysite/myfile.html)
    {{< /text >}}

1. **Relative Link**. You use relative links that start with a period to
reference any content that is at the same level as the current file, or below within
the hierarchy of the site:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [see here](./adir/anotherfile.html)
    {{< /text >}}

1. **Absolute Link**. You use absolute links that start with a `/` to reference content outside of the
current hierarchy:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [see here](/docs/adir/afile/)
    {{< /text >}}

### GitHub

There are a few ways to reference files from GitHub:

- **{{</* github_file */>}}** is how you reference individual files in GitHub such as yaml files. This
produces a link to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/...`

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [liveness]({{</* github_file */>}}/samples/health-check/liveness-command.yaml)
    {{< /text >}}

- **{{</* github_tree */>}}** is how you reference a directory tree in GitHub. This produces a link to
`https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/...`

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [httpbin]({{</* github_tree */>}}/samples/httpbin)
    {{< /text >}}

- **{{</* github_blob */>}}** is how you reference a file in GitHub sources. This produces a link to
`https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/...`

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [RawVM MySQL]({{</* github_blob */>}}/samples/rawvm/README.md)
    {{< /text >}}

The above annotations yield links to the appropriate branch in GitHub, relative to the branch that the
documentation is currently targeting. If you need to manually construct a URL, you can use the sequence **{{</* branch_name */>}}**
to get the name of the currently targeted branch.

## Embedding preformatted blocks

You can embed blocks of preformatted content using the `text` sequence:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text plain */>}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

The above produces this kind of output:

{{< text plain >}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{< /text >}}

You must indicate the syntax of the content in the preformatted block. Above, the block was marked as
being `plain` indicating that no syntax coloring should be applied to the block. Consider the same
block, but now annotated with the Go language syntax:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text go */>}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which renders as:

{{< text go >}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{< /text >}}

You can use `plain`, `markdown`, `yaml`, `json`, `java`, `javascript`, `c`, `cpp`, `csharp`, `go`, `html`, `protobuf`,
`perl`, `docker`, and `bash`.

### Commands and command output

When showing one or more bash command-lines, you start each command-line with a $:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ echo "Hello"
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which produces:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "Hello"
{{< /text >}}

You can have as many command-lines as you want, but only one chunk of output is recognized.

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ echo "Hello" >file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which yields:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "Hello" >file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
{{< /text >}}

You can also use line continuation in your command-lines:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ echo "Hello" \
    >file.txt
$ echo "There" >>file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
There
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which looks like:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "Hello" \
    >file.txt
$ echo "There" >>file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
There
{{< /text >}}

By default, the output section is handled using the `plain` syntax. If the output uses a well-known
syntax, you can specify it and get proper coloring for it. This is particularly common for YAML or JSON output:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash json */>}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system logs $(kubectl -n istio-system get pods -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') mixer | grep \"instance\":\"newlog.logentry.istio-system\"
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.249Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"details","latency":"6.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":178,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.291Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ratings","latency":"6.753ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":48,"source":"reviews","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.263Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"reviews","latency":"39.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":379,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.239Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"productpage","latency":"67.675ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.233Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","latency":"74.47ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"unknown","user":"unknown"}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which gives:

{{< text bash json >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system logs $(kubectl -n istio-system get pods -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') mixer | grep \"instance\":\"newlog.logentry.istio-system\"
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.249Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"details","latency":"6.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":178,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.291Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ratings","latency":"6.753ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":48,"source":"reviews","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.263Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"reviews","latency":"39.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":379,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.239Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"productpage","latency":"67.675ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.233Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","latency":"74.47ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"unknown","user":"unknown"}
{{< /text >}}

You can specify an optional third value which controls the name that the browser
will use when the user chooses to download the file. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text go plain "hello.go" */>}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

If you don't specify a third value, then the download name is derived automatically based on the
name of the current page.

### Links to GitHub files

If your code block references a file from Istio's GitHub repo, you can surround the relative path name of the file with a pair
of @ symbols. These indicate the path should be rendered as a link to the file from the current branch. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-reviews-v3.yaml@
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

This will be rendered as:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-reviews-v3.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

### Files and snippets

It is often useful to display files or portions of a file. You can annotate a text file to create named snippets within the file by
using the `$snippet` and `$endsnippet` annotations. For example, you could have a text file that looks like this:

{{< text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" >}}

and in your markdown file, you can then reference a particular snippet with:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" snippet="SNIP1" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

where `file` specifies the relative path of the text file within the documentation repo, `syntax` specifies
the syntax to use for syntax coloring (use `plain` for generic text), and `snippet` specifies the name of the
snippet. If you omit the `snippet` attribute, then the whole file is inserted verbatim.

The above snippet produces this output:

{{< text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" snippet="SNIP1" >}}

If you don't specify a snippet name, then the whole file will be inserted instead.

You can specify an optional `downloadas` attribute to control the name that the browser
will use when the user chooses to download the file. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" downloadas="foo.txt" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

If you don't specify the `downloadas` attribute, then the download name is taken from the `file`
attribute instead.

A common thing to do is to copy an example script or yaml file from GitHub into the documentation
repo and then use snippets within the file to produce examples in the documentation. To pull
in annotated files from GitHub, add the needed entries at the end of the
script `scripts/grab_reference_docs.sh` in the documentation repo.

### Dynamic content

You can dynamically pull in an external file and display its content as a preformatted block. This is handy to display a
config file or a test file. To do so, you use a statement such as:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_dynamic url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-ratings-ratelimit.yaml" syntax="yaml" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which produces the following result:

{{< text_dynamic url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-ratings-ratelimit.yaml" syntax="yaml" >}}

If the file is from a different origin site, CORS should be enabled on that site. Note that the
GitHub raw content site (`raw.githubusercontent.com`) may be used here.

You can specify an optional `downloadas` attribute to control the name that the browser
will use when the user chooses to download the file. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_dynamic url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-ratings-ratelimit.yaml" syntax="yaml" downloadas="foo.yaml" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

If you don't specify the `downloadas` attribute, then the download name is taken from the `url`
attribute instead.

## Renaming, moving, or deleting pages

If you move pages around or delete them completely, you should make sure existing links users may have to those pages continue to work.
You do this by adding aliases which will cause the user to be redirected automatically from the old URL to a new URL.

In the page that is the *target* of the redirect (where you'd like users to land), you simply add the
following to the front-matter:

{{< text plain >}}
aliases:
    - <url>
{{< /text >}}

For example

{{< text plain >}}
---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Questions Asked Frequently
weight: 12
aliases:
    - /faq
---
{{< /text >}}

With the above in a page saved as `_help/faq.md`, the user will be able to access the page by going
to `istio.io/help/faq/` as normal, as well as `istio.io/faq/`.

You can also add many redirects like so:

{{< text plain >}}
---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Questions Asked Frequently
weight: 12
aliases:
    - /faq
    - /faq2
    - /faq3
---
{{< /text >}}

## Things to watch for

There are unfortunately a few complications around writing content for istio.io. You need to know about these in order for your
content to be handled correctly by the site infrastructure:

- Make sure code blocks are always indented by a multiple of 4 spaces. Otherwise, the
indent of the code block in the rendered page will be off, and there will be spaces inserted
in the code block itself, making cut & paste not work right.

- Make sure all images have valid width and aspect ratios. Otherwise, they will render
in odd ways, depending on screen size.

Commit message:

Add support for skip_toc and skip_seealso front-matter values. (#1989)

content/about/contribute/writing-a-new-topic/index.md, after:

---
title: Writing a New Topic
description: Explains the mechanics of creating new documentation pages.
weight: 30
aliases:
    - /docs/welcome/contribute/writing-a-new-topic.html
keywords: [contribute]
---

This page shows how to create a new Istio documentation topic.

## Before you begin

You first need to create a fork of the Istio documentation repository as described in
[Working with GitHub](/about/contribute/github/).

## Choosing a page type

As you prepare to write a new topic, think about which of these page types
is the best fit for your content:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Concept</td>
    <td>A concept page explains some significant aspect of Istio. For example, a concept page might describe the
    Mixer's configuration model and explain some of its subtleties.
    Typically, concept pages don't include sequences of steps, but instead provide links to
    tasks that do.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Reference</td>
    <td>A reference page provides exhaustive lists of things like API parameters,
     command-line options, configuration settings, and procedures.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Examples</td>
    <td>An example page describes a fully working stand-alone example highlighting a particular set of features. Examples
    must have easy to follow setup and usage instructions so users can quickly run the sample
    themselves and experiment with changing the example to explore the system.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Task</td>
    <td>A task page shows how to do a single thing, typically by giving a short sequence of steps. Task pages have minimal
    explanation, but often provide links to conceptual topics that provide related background and knowledge.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Setup</td>
    <td>A setup page is similar to a task page, except that it is focused on installation
    activities.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Blog Post</td>
    <td>
      A blog post is a timely article on Istio or products and technologies related to it.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Naming a topic

Choose a title for your topic that has the keywords you want search engines to find.
Create a filename for your topic that uses the words in your title, separated by hyphens,
all in lower case.

## Updating the front matter

Every documentation file needs to start with
[front matter](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/).
The front matter is a block of YAML that is between the
triple-dashed lines at the top of each file. Here's the
chunk of front matter you should start with:

{{< text yaml >}}
---
title: <title>
description: <description>
weight: <weight>
keywords: [keyword1,keyword2,...]
---
{{< /text >}}

Copy the above at the start of your new markdown file and update the information fields.
The available front matter fields are:

|Field          | Description
|---------------|------------
|`title`        | The short title of the page
|`description`  | A one-line description of what the topic is about
|`weight`       | An integer used to determine the sort order of this page relative to other pages in the same directory
|`keywords`     | An array of keywords describing the page, used to create the web of See Also links
|`draft`        | When true, prevents the page from showing up in any navigation area
|`publishdate`  | For blog posts, indicates the date of publication of the post
|`subtitle`     | For blog posts, supplies an optional subtitle to be displayed below the main title
|`attribution`  | For blog posts, supplies an optional author's name
|`skip_toc`     | Set this to true to prevent the page from having a table of contents generated for it
|`skip_seealso`     | Set this to true to prevent the page from having a "See also" section generated for it
|`force_inline_toc` | Set this to true to force the generated table of contents from being inserted inline in the text instead of in a sidebar

## Adding images

Put image files in the same directory as your markdown file. The preferred image format is SVG.

Within markdown, use the following sequence to add the image:

{{< text html >}}
{{</* image width="75%" ratio="69.52%"
    link="./myfile.svg"
    alt="Alternate text to display when the image is not available"
    title="A tooltip displayed when hovering over the image"
    caption="A caption displayed under the image"
    */>}}
{{< /text >}}

The `width`, `ratio`, `link` and `caption` values are required. If the `title` value isn't
supplied, it'll default to the same as `caption`. If the `alt` value is not supplied, it'll
default to `title` or if that's not defined, to `caption`.

`width` represents the percentage of space used by the image
relative to the surrounding text. `ratio` must be manually calculated using (image height / image width) * 100.

## Adding icons & emojis

You can embed some common icons in your content using:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* warning_icon */>}}
{{</* idea_icon */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which look like {{< warning_icon >}} and {{< idea_icon >}}

In addition, you can embed an emoji in your content using a sequence such as <code>:</code><code>sailboat</code><code>:</code>
which looks like :sailboat:. Here's a handy [cheat sheet of the supported emojis](https://www.webpagefx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/).

## Linking to other pages

There are three types of links that can be included in documentation. Each uses a different
way to indicate the link target:

1. **Internet Link**. You use classic URL syntax, preferably with the HTTPS protocol, to reference
files on the Internet:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [see here](https://mysite/myfile.html)
    {{< /text >}}

1. **Relative Link**. You use relative links that start with a period to
reference any content that is at the same level as the current file, or below within
the hierarchy of the site:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [see here](./adir/anotherfile.html)
    {{< /text >}}

1. **Absolute Link**. You use absolute links that start with a `/` to reference content outside of the
current hierarchy:

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [see here](/docs/adir/afile/)
    {{< /text >}}

### GitHub

There are a few ways to reference files from GitHub:

- **{{</* github_file */>}}** is how you reference individual files in GitHub such as yaml files. This
produces a link to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/...`

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [liveness]({{</* github_file */>}}/samples/health-check/liveness-command.yaml)
    {{< /text >}}

- **{{</* github_tree */>}}** is how you reference a directory tree in GitHub. This produces a link to
`https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/...`

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [httpbin]({{</* github_tree */>}}/samples/httpbin)
    {{< /text >}}

- **{{</* github_blob */>}}** is how you reference a file in GitHub sources. This produces a link to
`https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/...`

    {{< text markdown >}}
    [RawVM MySQL]({{</* github_blob */>}}/samples/rawvm/README.md)
    {{< /text >}}

The above annotations yield links to the appropriate branch in GitHub, relative to the branch that the
documentation is currently targeting. If you need to manually construct a URL, you can use the sequence **{{</* branch_name */>}}**
to get the name of the currently targeted branch.

## Embedding preformatted blocks

You can embed blocks of preformatted content using the `text` sequence:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text plain */>}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

The above produces this kind of output:

{{< text plain >}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{< /text >}}

You must indicate the syntax of the content in the preformatted block. Above, the block was marked as
being `plain` indicating that no syntax coloring should be applied to the block. Consider the same
block, but now annotated with the Go language syntax:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text go */>}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which renders as:

{{< text go >}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{< /text >}}

You can use `plain`, `markdown`, `yaml`, `json`, `java`, `javascript`, `c`, `cpp`, `csharp`, `go`, `html`, `protobuf`,
`perl`, `docker`, and `bash`.

### Commands and command output

When showing one or more bash command-lines, you start each command-line with a $:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ echo "Hello"
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which produces:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "Hello"
{{< /text >}}

You can have as many command-lines as you want, but only one chunk of output is recognized.

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ echo "Hello" >file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which yields:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "Hello" >file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
{{< /text >}}

You can also use line continuation in your command-lines:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ echo "Hello" \
    >file.txt
$ echo "There" >>file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
There
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which looks like:

{{< text bash >}}
$ echo "Hello" \
    >file.txt
$ echo "There" >>file.txt
$ cat file.txt
Hello
There
{{< /text >}}

By default, the output section is handled using the `plain` syntax. If the output uses a well-known
syntax, you can specify it and get proper coloring for it. This is particularly common for YAML or JSON output:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash json */>}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system logs $(kubectl -n istio-system get pods -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') mixer | grep \"instance\":\"newlog.logentry.istio-system\"
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.249Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"details","latency":"6.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":178,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.291Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ratings","latency":"6.753ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":48,"source":"reviews","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.263Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"reviews","latency":"39.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":379,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.239Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"productpage","latency":"67.675ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.233Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","latency":"74.47ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"unknown","user":"unknown"}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which gives:

{{< text bash json >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system logs $(kubectl -n istio-system get pods -l istio-mixer-type=telemetry -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') mixer | grep \"instance\":\"newlog.logentry.istio-system\"
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.249Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"details","latency":"6.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":178,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.291Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ratings","latency":"6.753ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":48,"source":"reviews","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.263Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"reviews","latency":"39.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":379,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.239Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"productpage","latency":"67.675ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","user":"unknown"}
{"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.233Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","latency":"74.47ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"unknown","user":"unknown"}
{{< /text >}}

You can specify an optional third value which controls the name that the browser
will use when the user chooses to download the file. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text go plain "hello.go" */>}}
func HelloWorld() {
  fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

If you don't specify a third value, then the download name is derived automatically based on the
name of the current page.

### Links to GitHub files

If your code block references a file from Istio's GitHub repo, you can surround the relative path name of the file with a pair
of @ symbols. These indicate the path should be rendered as a link to the file from the current branch. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text bash */>}}
$ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-reviews-v3.yaml@
{{</* /text */>}}
{{< /text >}}

This will be rendered as:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl create -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-reviews-v3.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

### Files and snippets

It is often useful to display files or portions of a file. You can annotate a text file to create named snippets within the file by
using the `$snippet` and `$endsnippet` annotations. For example, you could have a text file that looks like this:

{{< text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" >}}

and in your markdown file, you can then reference a particular snippet with:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" snippet="SNIP1" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

where `file` specifies the relative path of the text file within the documentation repo, `syntax` specifies
the syntax to use for syntax coloring (use `plain` for generic text), and `snippet` specifies the name of the
snippet. If you omit the `snippet` attribute, then the whole file is inserted verbatim.

The above snippet produces this output:

{{< text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" snippet="SNIP1" >}}

If you don't specify a snippet name, then the whole file will be inserted instead.

You can specify an optional `downloadas` attribute to control the name that the browser
will use when the user chooses to download the file. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_file file="examples/snippet_example.txt" syntax="plain" downloadas="foo.txt" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

If you don't specify the `downloadas` attribute, then the download name is taken from the `file`
attribute instead.

A common thing to do is to copy an example script or yaml file from GitHub into the documentation
repo and then use snippets within the file to produce examples in the documentation. To pull
in annotated files from GitHub, add the needed entries at the end of the
script `scripts/grab_reference_docs.sh` in the documentation repo.

### Dynamic content

You can dynamically pull in an external file and display its content as a preformatted block. This is handy to display a
config file or a test file. To do so, you use a statement such as:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_dynamic url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-ratings-ratelimit.yaml" syntax="yaml" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

which produces the following result:

{{< text_dynamic url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-ratings-ratelimit.yaml" syntax="yaml" >}}

If the file is from a different origin site, CORS should be enabled on that site. Note that the
GitHub raw content site (`raw.githubusercontent.com`) may be used here.

You can specify an optional `downloadas` attribute to control the name that the browser
will use when the user chooses to download the file. For example:

{{< text markdown >}}
{{</* text_dynamic url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/policy/mixer-rule-ratings-ratelimit.yaml" syntax="yaml" downloadas="foo.yaml" */>}}
{{< /text >}}

If you don't specify the `downloadas` attribute, then the download name is taken from the `url`
attribute instead.

## Renaming, moving, or deleting pages

If you move pages around or delete them completely, you should make sure existing links users may have to those pages continue to work.
You do this by adding aliases which will cause the user to be redirected automatically from the old URL to a new URL.

In the page that is the *target* of the redirect (where you'd like users to land), you simply add the
following to the front-matter:

{{< text plain >}}
aliases:
    - <url>
{{< /text >}}

For example

{{< text plain >}}
---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Questions Asked Frequently
weight: 12
aliases:
    - /faq
---
{{< /text >}}

With the above in a page saved as `_help/faq.md`, the user will be able to access the page by going
to `istio.io/help/faq/` as normal, as well as `istio.io/faq/`.

You can also add many redirects like so:

{{< text plain >}}
---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Questions Asked Frequently
weight: 12
aliases:
    - /faq
    - /faq2
    - /faq3
---
{{< /text >}}

## Things to watch for

There are unfortunately a few complications around writing content for istio.io. You need to know about these in order for your
content to be handled correctly by the site infrastructure:

- Make sure code blocks are always indented by a multiple of 4 spaces. Otherwise, the
indent of the code block in the rendered page will be off, and there will be spaces inserted
in the code block itself, making cut & paste not work right.

- Make sure all images have valid width and aspect ratios. Otherwise, they will render
in odd ways, depending on screen size.
