_docs/reference/config/mixer/template/quota.md, before:

---
title: quota Config
overview: Generated documentation for Mixer's Template Configuration Schema

order: 1190

layout: docs
type: markdown
---


<a name="rpcIstio.mixer.v1.config.descriptorIndex"></a>
### Index

* [ValueType](#istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType)
(enum)

<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType"></a>
### ValueType
ValueType describes the types that values in the Istio system can take. These
are used to describe the type of Attributes at run time, describe the type of
the result of evaluating an expression, and to describe the runtime type of
fields of other descriptors.


<table>
 <tr>
  <th>Value</th>
  <th>Description</th>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.VALUETYPEUNSPECIFIED"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>VALUETYPEUNSPECIFIED</td>
  <td>Invalid, default value.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.STRING"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>STRING</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated variable-length string.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.INT64"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>INT64</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated 64-bit signed integer.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.DOUBLE"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>DOUBLE</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated 64-bit floating-point value.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.BOOL"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>BOOL</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated boolean value.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.TIMESTAMP"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>TIMESTAMP</td>
  <td>A point in time.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.IPADDRESS"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>IPADDRESS</td>
  <td>An IP address.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.EMAILADDRESS"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>EMAILADDRESS</td>
  <td>An email address.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.URI"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>URI</td>
  <td>A URI.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.DNSNAME"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>DNSNAME</td>
  <td>A DNS name.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.DURATION"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>DURATION</td>
  <td>A span between two points in time.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.STRINGMAP"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>STRINGMAP</td>
  <td>A map string -&gt; string, typically used by headers.</td>
 </tr>
</table>

<a name="rpcQuota"></a>
## Package quota

<a name="rpcQuotaIndex"></a>
### Index

* [Template](#quota.Template)
(message)

<a name="quota.Template"></a>
### Template

<table>
 <tr>
  <th>Field</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Description</th>
 </tr>
<a name="quota.Template.dimensions"></a>
 <tr>
  <td><code>dimensions</code></td>
  <td>repeated map&lt;string, <a href="#istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType">ValueType</a>&gt;</td>
  <td>The unique identity of the particular quota to manipulate.</td>
 </tr>
</table>

Commit message:

Update the docs with new template docs (#573)

_docs/reference/config/mixer/template/quota.md, after:

---
title: quota Config
overview: Generated documentation for Mixer's Template Configuration Schema

order: 1190

layout: docs
type: markdown
---


<a name="rpcIstio.mixer.v1.config.descriptorIndex"></a>
### Index

* [ValueType](#istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType)
(enum)

<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType"></a>
### ValueType
ValueType describes the types that values in the Istio system can take. These
are used to describe the type of Attributes at run time, describe the type of
the result of evaluating an expression, and to describe the runtime type of
fields of other descriptors.


<table>
 <tr>
  <th>Value</th>
  <th>Description</th>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.VALUETYPEUNSPECIFIED"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>VALUETYPEUNSPECIFIED</td>
  <td>Invalid, default value.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.STRING"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>STRING</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated variable-length string.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.INT64"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>INT64</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated 64-bit signed integer.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.DOUBLE"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>DOUBLE</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated 64-bit floating-point value.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.BOOL"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>BOOL</td>
  <td>An undiscriminated boolean value.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.TIMESTAMP"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>TIMESTAMP</td>
  <td>A point in time.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.IPADDRESS"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>IPADDRESS</td>
  <td>An IP address.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.EMAILADDRESS"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>EMAILADDRESS</td>
  <td>An email address.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.URI"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>URI</td>
  <td>A URI.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.DNSNAME"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>DNSNAME</td>
  <td>A DNS name.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.DURATION"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>DURATION</td>
  <td>A span between two points in time.</td>
 </tr>
<a name="istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType.STRINGMAP"></a>
 <tr>
  <td>STRINGMAP</td>
  <td>A map string -&gt; string, typically used by headers.</td>
 </tr>
</table>

<a name="rpcQuota"></a>
## Package quota

<a name="rpcQuotaIndex"></a>
### Index

* [Template](#quota.Template)
(message)

<a name="quota.Template"></a>
### Template
Quota represents a piece of data to check Quota for.

When writing the configuration, the value for the fields associated with this template can either be a
literal or an [expression](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/mixer/expression-language.html). Please note that if the datatype of a field is not istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType,
then the expression's [inferred type](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/mixer/expression-language.html#type-checking) must match the datatype of the field.

Example config:

```
apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
kind: quota
metadata:
  name: requestcount
  namespace: istio-config-default
spec:
  dimensions:
    source: source.labels["app"] | source.service | "unknown"
    sourceVersion: source.labels["version"] | "unknown"
    destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.service | "unknown"
    destinationVersion: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
```

<table>
 <tr>
  <th>Field</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Description</th>
 </tr>
<a name="quota.Template.dimensions"></a>
 <tr>
  <td><code>dimensions</code></td>
  <td>repeated map&lt;string, <a href="#istio.mixer.v1.config.descriptor.ValueType">ValueType</a>&gt;</td>
  <td>The unique identity of the particular quota to manipulate.</td>
 </tr>
</table>
