_docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics-logs.md, before:

---
title: Collecting Metrics and Logs

overview: This task shows you how to configure Istio to collect metrics and logs.

order: 10

layout: docs
type: markdown
redirect_from: "/docs/tasks/metrics-logs.html"
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows how to configure Istio to automatically gather telemetry for
services in a mesh. At the end of this task, a new metric and a new log stream
will be enabled for calls to services within your mesh.

The [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used
as the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin
* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application. This task assumes that Mixer is setup in a default configuration
  (`--configDefaultNamespace=istio-system`). If you use a different
  value, update the configuration and commands in this task to match the value.

* Install the optional add-on [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io). Prometheus
  will be used to verify task success.

## Collecting new telemetry data

1. Create a new YAML file to hold configuration for the new metric and log
   stream that Istio will generate and collect automatically.

   Save the following as `new_telemetry.yaml`:
   ```yaml
   # Configuration for metric instances
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: metric
   metadata:
     name: doublerequestcount
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     value: "2" # count each request twice
     dimensions:
       source: source.service | "unknown"
       destination: destination.service | "unknown"
       message: '"twice the fun!"'
     monitored_resource_type: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: prometheus
   metadata:
     name: doublehandler
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     metrics:
     - name: double_request_count # Prometheus metric name
       instance_name: doublerequestcount.metric.istio-system # Mixer instance name (fully-qualified)
       kind: COUNTER
       label_names:
       - source
       - destination
       - message
   ---
   # Rule to send metric instances to a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: rule
   metadata:
     name: doubleprom
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     actions:
     - handler: doublehandler.prometheus
       instances:
       - doublerequestcount.metric
   ---
   # Configuration for logentry instances
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: logentry
   metadata:
     name: newlog
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     severity: '"warning"'
     timestamp: request.time
     variables:
       source: source.labels["app"] | source.service | "unknown"
       user: source.user | "unknown"
       destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.service | "unknown"
       responseCode: response.code | 0
       responseSize: response.size | 0
       latency: response.duration | "0ms"
     monitored_resource_type: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a stdio handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: stdio
   metadata:
     name: newhandler
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
    severity_levels:
      warning: 1 # Params.Level.WARNING
    outputAsJson: true
   ---
   # Rule to send logentry instances to a stdio handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: rule
   metadata:
     name: newlogstdio
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     match: "true" # match for all requests
     actions:
      - handler: newhandler.stdio
        instances:
        - newlog.logentry
   ---
   ```

1. Push the new configuration.

   ```bash
   istioctl create -f new_telemetry.yaml
   ```

   The expected output is similar to:
   ```
   Created config metric/istio-system/doublerequestcount at revision 1973035
   Created config prometheus/istio-system/doublehandler at revision 1973036
   Created config rule/istio-system/doubleprom at revision 1973037
   Created config logentry/istio-system/newlog at revision 1973038
   Created config stdio/istio-system/newhandler at revision 1973039
   Created config rule/istio-system/newlogstdio at revision 1973041
   ```

1. Send traffic to the sample application.

   For the BookInfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
   browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

1. Verify that the new metric values are being generated and collected.

   In a Kubernetes environment, setup port-forwarding for Prometheus by
   executing the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
   ```

   View values for the new metric via the [Prometheus UI](http://localhost:9090/graph#%5B%7B%22range_input%22%3A%221h%22%2C%22expr%22%3A%22double_request_count%22%2C%22tab%22%3A1%7D%5D).
   
   The provided link opens the Prometheus UI and executes a query for values of the
   `double_request_count` metric. The table displayed in the **Console** tab
   includes entries similar to:

   ```
   double_request_count{destination="details.default.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"}	2
   double_request_count{destination="ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="unknown"}	2
   double_request_count{destination="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local"}	2
   double_request_count{destination="reviews.default.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"}	2
   ```

   For more on querying Prometheus for metric values, see the [Querying Istio
   Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html) Task.

1. Verify that the logs stream has been created and is being populated for
   requests.

   In a Kubernetes environment, search through the logs for the Mixer pod as
   follows:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system logs $(kubectl -n istio-system get pods -l istio=mixer -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') mixer | grep \"instance\":\"newlog.logentry.istio-system\"
   ```

   The expected output is similar to:

   ```json
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.249Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"details","latency":"6.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":178,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.291Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ratings","latency":"6.753ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":48,"source":"reviews","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.263Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"reviews","latency":"39.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":379,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.239Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"productpage","latency":"67.675ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.233Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","latency":"74.47ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"unknown","user":"unknown"}
   ```

## Understanding the telemetry configuration

In this task, you added Istio configuration that instructed Mixer to
automatically generate and report a new metric and a new log stream for all
traffic within the mesh.

The added configuration controlled three pieces of Mixer functionality:
1. Generation of *instances* (in this example, metric values and log entries)
   from Istio attributes
1. Creation of *handlers* (configured Mixer adapters) capable of processing
   generated *instances*
1. Dispatch of *instances* to *handlers* according to a set of *rules*

### Understanding the metrics configuration

The metrics configuration directs Mixer to send metric values to Prometheus. It
uses three stanzas (or blocks) of configuration: *instance* configuration,
*handler* configuration, and *rule* configuration.

The `kind: metric` stanza of config defines a schema for generated metric values
(or *instances*) for a new metric named `doublerequestcount`. This instance
configuration tells Mixer _how_ to generate metric values for any given request,
based on the attributes reported by Envoy (and generated by Mixer itself).

For each instance of `doublerequestcount.metric`, the config directs Mixer to
supply a value of `2` for the instance. Because Istio generates an instance for
each request, this means that this metric records a value equal to twice the
total number of requests received.

A set of `dimensions` are specified for each `doublerequestcount.metric`
instance. Dimensions provide a way to slice, aggregate, and analyze metric data
according to different needs and directions of inquiry. For instance, it may be
desirable to only consider requests for a certain destination service when
troubleshooting application behavior.

The configuration instructs Mixer to populate values for these dimensions based
on attribute values and literal values. For instance, for the `source`
dimension, the new config requests that the value be taken from the
`source.service` attribute. If that attribute value is not populated, the rule
instructs Mixer to use a default value of `"unknown"`. For the `message`
dimension, a literal value of `"twice the fun!"` will be used for all instances.

The `kind: prometheus` stanza of config defines a *handler* named
`doublehandler`. The handler `spec` configures how the Prometheus adapter code
translates received metric instances into prometheus-formatted values that can
be processed by a Prometheus backend. This configuration specified a new
Prometheus metric named `double_request_count`, with three labels (matching the
dimensions configured for `doublerequestcount.metric` instances).

For `kind: prometheus` handlers, Mixer instances are matched to Prometheus
metrics via the `instance_name` parameter. The `instance_name` values must be
the fully-qualified name for Mixer instances (example:
`doublerequestcount.metric.istio-system`).

The `kind: rule` stanza of config defines a new *rule* named `doubleprom`. The 
rule directs Mixer to send all `doublerequestcount.metric` instances to the
`doublehandler.prometheus` handler. Because there is no `match` clause in the 
rule, and because the rule is in the configured default configuration namespace 
(`istio-system`), the rule is executed for all requests in the mesh.

### Understanding the logs configuration

The logs configuration directs Mixer to send log entries to stdout. It uses
three stanzas (or blocks) of configuration: *instance* configuration, *handler*
configuration, and *rule* configuration.

The `kind: logentry` stanza of config defines a schema for generated log entries
(or *instances*) named `newlog`. This instance configuration tells Mixer _how_
to generate log entries for requests based on the attributes reported by Envoy.

The `severity` parameter is used to indicate the log level for any generated
`logentry`. In this example, a literal value of `"warning"` is used. This value will
be mapped to supported logging levels by a `logentry` *handler*.

The `timestamp` parameter provides time information for all log entries. In this
example, the time is provided by the attribute value of `request.time`, as
provided by Envoy.

The `variables` parameter allows operators to configure what values should be
included in each `logentry`. A set of expressions controls the mapping from Istio
attributes and literal values into the values that constitute a `logentry`.
In this example, each `logentry` instance has a field named `latency` populated
with the value from the attribute `response.duration`. If there is no known
value for `response.duration`, the `latency` field will be set to a duration of
`0ms`.

The `kind: stdio` stanza of config defines a *handler* named `newhandler`. The
handler `spec` configures how the `stdio` adapter code processes received
`logentry` instances. The `severity_levels` parameter controls how `logentry`
values for the `severity` field are mapped to supported logging levels. Here,
the value of `"warning"` is mapped to the `WARNING` log level. The
`outputAsJson` parameter directs the adapter to generate JSON-formatted log
lines.

The `kind: rule` stanza of config defines a new *rule* named `newlogstdio`. The
rule directs Mixer to send all `newlog.logentry` instances to the
`newhandler.stdio` handler. Because the `match` parameter is set to `true`, the
rule is executed for all requests in the mesh.

A `match: true` expression in the rule specification is not required to
configure a rule to be executed for all requests. Omitting the entire `match`
parameter from the `spec` is equivalent to setting `match: true`. It is included
here to illustrate how to use `match` expressions to control rule execution.

## Cleanup

Remove the new telemetry configuration:

```bash
istioctl delete -f new_telemetry.yaml
```

## What's next

* Learn more about [Mixer]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer.html)
  and [Mixer
  Config]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer-config.html).

* Discover the full [Attribute
  Vocabulary]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/mixer/attribute-vocabulary.html).

* Read the reference guide to [Writing
  Config]({{home}}/docs/reference/writing-config.html).

* Try out the related telemetry tasks:
  - [Querying Istio Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html)
  - [Using the Istio Dashboard]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/using-istio-dashboard.html)
  - [Generating an Istio Service Graph]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/servicegraph.html)

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the [BookInfo
  cleanup]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html#cleanup) instructions to shutdown
  the application and cleanup the associated rules.

Commit message:

Clean up tasks (#549)
* Adding guides for telemetry

* nits

* nit

* egress

* consul install file fix

* more task cleanup

* nits

* update telemetry tasks

* more tweaks

* remove what's next

* tweaks to security tasks

* some nits to telemetry guide

* overall tweaks

_docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics-logs.md, after:

---
title: Collecting Metrics and Logs

overview: This task shows you how to configure Istio to collect metrics and logs.

order: 20

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows how to configure Istio to automatically gather telemetry for
services in a mesh. At the end of this task, a new metric and a new log stream
will be enabled for calls to services within your mesh.

The [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used
as the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin
* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application. This task assumes that Mixer is setup in a default configuration
  (`--configDefaultNamespace=istio-system`). If you use a different
  value, update the configuration and commands in this task to match the value.

* Install the optional add-on [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io). Prometheus
  will be used to verify task success.

## Collecting new telemetry data

1. Create a new YAML file to hold configuration for the new metric and log
   stream that Istio will generate and collect automatically.

   Save the following as `new_telemetry.yaml`:
   ```yaml
   # Configuration for metric instances
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: metric
   metadata:
     name: doublerequestcount
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     value: "2" # count each request twice
     dimensions:
       source: source.service | "unknown"
       destination: destination.service | "unknown"
       message: '"twice the fun!"'
     monitored_resource_type: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: prometheus
   metadata:
     name: doublehandler
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     metrics:
     - name: double_request_count # Prometheus metric name
       instance_name: doublerequestcount.metric.istio-system # Mixer instance name (fully-qualified)
       kind: COUNTER
       label_names:
       - source
       - destination
       - message
   ---
   # Rule to send metric instances to a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: rule
   metadata:
     name: doubleprom
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     actions:
     - handler: doublehandler.prometheus
       instances:
       - doublerequestcount.metric
   ---
   # Configuration for logentry instances
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: logentry
   metadata:
     name: newlog
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     severity: '"warning"'
     timestamp: request.time
     variables:
       source: source.labels["app"] | source.service | "unknown"
       user: source.user | "unknown"
       destination: destination.labels["app"] | destination.service | "unknown"
       responseCode: response.code | 0
       responseSize: response.size | 0
       latency: response.duration | "0ms"
     monitored_resource_type: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a stdio handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: stdio
   metadata:
     name: newhandler
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
    severity_levels:
      warning: 1 # Params.Level.WARNING
    outputAsJson: true
   ---
   # Rule to send logentry instances to a stdio handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: rule
   metadata:
     name: newlogstdio
     namespace: istio-system
   spec:
     match: "true" # match for all requests
     actions:
      - handler: newhandler.stdio
        instances:
        - newlog.logentry
   ---
   ```

1. Push the new configuration.

   ```bash
   istioctl create -f new_telemetry.yaml
   ```

   The expected output is similar to:
   ```
   Created config metric/istio-system/doublerequestcount at revision 1973035
   Created config prometheus/istio-system/doublehandler at revision 1973036
   Created config rule/istio-system/doubleprom at revision 1973037
   Created config logentry/istio-system/newlog at revision 1973038
   Created config stdio/istio-system/newhandler at revision 1973039
   Created config rule/istio-system/newlogstdio at revision 1973041
   ```

1. Send traffic to the sample application.

   For the BookInfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
   browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

1. Verify that the new metric values are being generated and collected.

   In a Kubernetes environment, setup port-forwarding for Prometheus by
   executing the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
   ```

   View values for the new metric via the [Prometheus UI](http://localhost:9090/graph#%5B%7B%22range_input%22%3A%221h%22%2C%22expr%22%3A%22double_request_count%22%2C%22tab%22%3A1%7D%5D).
   
   The provided link opens the Prometheus UI and executes a query for values of the
   `double_request_count` metric. The table displayed in the **Console** tab
   includes entries similar to:

   ```
   double_request_count{destination="details.default.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"}	2
   double_request_count{destination="ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="unknown"}	2
   double_request_count{destination="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local"}	2
   double_request_count{destination="reviews.default.svc.cluster.local",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",message="twice the fun!",source="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"}	2
   ```

   For more on querying Prometheus for metric values, see the [Querying Istio
   Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html) Task.

1. Verify that the logs stream has been created and is being populated for
   requests.

   In a Kubernetes environment, search through the logs for the Mixer pod as
   follows:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system logs $(kubectl -n istio-system get pods -l istio=mixer -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') mixer | grep \"instance\":\"newlog.logentry.istio-system\"
   ```

   The expected output is similar to:

   ```json
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.249Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"details","latency":"6.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":178,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.291Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ratings","latency":"6.753ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":48,"source":"reviews","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.263Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"reviews","latency":"39.848ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":379,"source":"productpage","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.239Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"productpage","latency":"67.675ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","user":"unknown"}
   {"level":"warn","ts":"2017-09-21T04:33:31.233Z","instance":"newlog.logentry.istio-system","destination":"ingress.istio-system.svc.cluster.local","latency":"74.47ms","responseCode":200,"responseSize":5599,"source":"unknown","user":"unknown"}
   ```

## Understanding the telemetry configuration

In this task, you added Istio configuration that instructed Mixer to
automatically generate and report a new metric and a new log stream for all
traffic within the mesh.

The added configuration controlled three pieces of Mixer functionality:
1. Generation of *instances* (in this example, metric values and log entries)
   from Istio attributes
1. Creation of *handlers* (configured Mixer adapters) capable of processing
   generated *instances*
1. Dispatch of *instances* to *handlers* according to a set of *rules*

### Understanding the metrics configuration

The metrics configuration directs Mixer to send metric values to Prometheus. It
uses three stanzas (or blocks) of configuration: *instance* configuration,
*handler* configuration, and *rule* configuration.

The `kind: metric` stanza of config defines a schema for generated metric values
(or *instances*) for a new metric named `doublerequestcount`. This instance
configuration tells Mixer _how_ to generate metric values for any given request,
based on the attributes reported by Envoy (and generated by Mixer itself).

For each instance of `doublerequestcount.metric`, the config directs Mixer to
supply a value of `2` for the instance. Because Istio generates an instance for
each request, this means that this metric records a value equal to twice the
total number of requests received.

A set of `dimensions` are specified for each `doublerequestcount.metric`
instance. Dimensions provide a way to slice, aggregate, and analyze metric data
according to different needs and directions of inquiry. For instance, it may be
desirable to only consider requests for a certain destination service when
troubleshooting application behavior.

The configuration instructs Mixer to populate values for these dimensions based
on attribute values and literal values. For instance, for the `source`
dimension, the new config requests that the value be taken from the
`source.service` attribute. If that attribute value is not populated, the rule
instructs Mixer to use a default value of `"unknown"`. For the `message`
dimension, a literal value of `"twice the fun!"` will be used for all instances.

The `kind: prometheus` stanza of config defines a *handler* named
`doublehandler`. The handler `spec` configures how the Prometheus adapter code
translates received metric instances into prometheus-formatted values that can
be processed by a Prometheus backend. This configuration specified a new
Prometheus metric named `double_request_count`, with three labels (matching the
dimensions configured for `doublerequestcount.metric` instances).

For `kind: prometheus` handlers, Mixer instances are matched to Prometheus
metrics via the `instance_name` parameter. The `instance_name` values must be
the fully-qualified name for Mixer instances (example:
`doublerequestcount.metric.istio-system`).

The `kind: rule` stanza of config defines a new *rule* named `doubleprom`. The 
rule directs Mixer to send all `doublerequestcount.metric` instances to the
`doublehandler.prometheus` handler. Because there is no `match` clause in the 
rule, and because the rule is in the configured default configuration namespace 
(`istio-system`), the rule is executed for all requests in the mesh.

### Understanding the logs configuration

The logs configuration directs Mixer to send log entries to stdout. It uses
three stanzas (or blocks) of configuration: *instance* configuration, *handler*
configuration, and *rule* configuration.

The `kind: logentry` stanza of config defines a schema for generated log entries
(or *instances*) named `newlog`. This instance configuration tells Mixer _how_
to generate log entries for requests based on the attributes reported by Envoy.

The `severity` parameter is used to indicate the log level for any generated
`logentry`. In this example, a literal value of `"warning"` is used. This value will
be mapped to supported logging levels by a `logentry` *handler*.

The `timestamp` parameter provides time information for all log entries. In this
example, the time is provided by the attribute value of `request.time`, as
provided by Envoy.

The `variables` parameter allows operators to configure what values should be
included in each `logentry`. A set of expressions controls the mapping from Istio
attributes and literal values into the values that constitute a `logentry`.
In this example, each `logentry` instance has a field named `latency` populated
with the value from the attribute `response.duration`. If there is no known
value for `response.duration`, the `latency` field will be set to a duration of
`0ms`.

The `kind: stdio` stanza of config defines a *handler* named `newhandler`. The
handler `spec` configures how the `stdio` adapter code processes received
`logentry` instances. The `severity_levels` parameter controls how `logentry`
values for the `severity` field are mapped to supported logging levels. Here,
the value of `"warning"` is mapped to the `WARNING` log level. The
`outputAsJson` parameter directs the adapter to generate JSON-formatted log
lines.

The `kind: rule` stanza of config defines a new *rule* named `newlogstdio`. The
rule directs Mixer to send all `newlog.logentry` instances to the
`newhandler.stdio` handler. Because the `match` parameter is set to `true`, the
rule is executed for all requests in the mesh.

A `match: true` expression in the rule specification is not required to
configure a rule to be executed for all requests. Omitting the entire `match`
parameter from the `spec` is equivalent to setting `match: true`. It is included
here to illustrate how to use `match` expressions to control rule execution.

## Cleanup

* Remove the new telemetry configuration:

  ```bash
  istioctl delete -f new_telemetry.yaml
  ```

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [BookInfo cleanup]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

## Further reading

* Learn more about [Mixer]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer.html)
  and [Mixer
  Config]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer-config.html).

* Discover the full [Attribute
  Vocabulary]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/mixer/attribute-vocabulary.html).

* Read the reference guide to [Writing
  Config]({{home}}/docs/reference/writing-config.html).

* Refer to the [In-Depth Telemetry]({{home}}/docs/guides/telemetry.html) guide.
