_docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.md, before:

---
title: Querying Istio Metrics

overview: This task shows you how to query for Istio Metrics using Prometheus.

order: 15

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows you how to query for Istio Metrics using Prometheus. As part of
this task, you will install the Prometheus Istio addon and use the web-based
interface for querying metric values.

The [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin
* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

## Querying Istio Metrics

1. To query the metrics provided by Mixer, first install the Prometheus add-on.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
    ```

1. Verify that the service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system get svc prometheus
    ```

    The output will be similar to:

    ```
    NAME         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    prometheus   10.59.241.54   <none>        9090/TCP   2m
    ```

1. Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the BookInfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

   Note: `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the
   [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) guide.

1. Open the Prometheus UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &   
    ```

    Visit [http://localhost:9090/graph](http://localhost:9090/graph) in your web browser.

1. Execute a Prometheus query.

    In the "Expression" input box at the top of the web page, enter the text:
    `request_count`. Then, click the **Execute** button.

    The results will be similar to:

    <figure><img style="max-width:100%" src="./img/prometheus_query_result.png" alt="Prometheus Query Result" title="Prometheus Query Result" />
    <figcaption>Prometheus Query Result</figcaption></figure>

    Other queries to try:

    - Total count of all requests to `productpage` service:

       ```
       request_count{destination_service="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"}
       ```

    - Total count of all requests to `v3` of the `reviews` service:

       ```
       request_count{destination_service="reviews.default.svc.cluster.local", destination_version="v3"}
       ```
       
       This query returns the current total count of all requests to the v3 of the reviews service.

    - Rate of requests over the past 5 minutes to all `productpage` services:

       ```
       rate(request_count{destination_service=~"productpage.*", response_code="200"}[5m])
       ```

### About the Prometheus Add-on

Mixer comes with a built-in [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) adapter that
exposes an endpoint serving generated metric values. The Prometheus add-on is a
Prometheus server that comes pre-configured to scrape Mixer endpoints to collect
the exposed metrics. It provides a mechanism for persistent storage and querying
of Istio metrics. 

The configured Prometheus add-on scrapes three endpoints:
1. *istio-mesh* (`istio-mixer.istio-system:42422`): all Mixer-generated mesh
   metrics.
1. *mixer* (`istio-mixer.istio-system:9093`): all Mixer-specific metrics. Used
   to monitor Mixer itself.
1. *envoy* (`istio-mixer.istio-system:9102`): raw stats generated by Envoy (and
   translated from statsd to prometheus).

For more on querying Prometheus, please read their [querying
docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/querying/basics/).

## Cleanup

In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command to remove the
Prometheus add-on:

```bash
kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
```

## What's next

* Try out the related telemetry tasks:
  - [Using the Istio
    Dashboard]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/using-istio-dashboard.html)
  - [Generating an Istio Service
    Graph]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/servicegraph.html)

Commit message:

Clean up tasks (#549)
* Adding guides for telemetry

* nits

* nit

* egress

* consul install file fix

* more task cleanup

* nits

* update telemetry tasks

* more tweaks

* remove what's next

* tweaks to security tasks

* some nits to telemetry guide

* overall tweaks

_docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.md, after:

---
title: Querying Metrics from Prometheus

overview: This task shows you how to query for Istio Metrics using Prometheus.

order: 30

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows you how to query for Istio Metrics using Prometheus. As part of
this task, you will install the Prometheus Istio addon and use the web-based
interface for querying metric values.

The [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin
* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

## Querying Istio Metrics

1. To query the metrics provided by Mixer, first install the Prometheus add-on.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
    ```

1. Verify that the service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system get svc prometheus
    ```

    The output will be similar to:

    ```
    NAME         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    prometheus   10.59.241.54   <none>        9090/TCP   2m
    ```

1. Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the BookInfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

   Note: `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the
   [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) guide.

1. Open the Prometheus UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &   
    ```

    Visit [http://localhost:9090/graph](http://localhost:9090/graph) in your web browser.

1. Execute a Prometheus query.

    In the "Expression" input box at the top of the web page, enter the text:
    `request_count`. Then, click the **Execute** button.

    The results will be similar to:

    <figure><img style="max-width:100%" src="./img/prometheus_query_result.png" alt="Prometheus Query Result" title="Prometheus Query Result" />
    <figcaption>Prometheus Query Result</figcaption></figure>

    Other queries to try:

    - Total count of all requests to `productpage` service:

       ```
       request_count{destination_service="productpage.default.svc.cluster.local"}
       ```

    - Total count of all requests to `v3` of the `reviews` service:

       ```
       request_count{destination_service="reviews.default.svc.cluster.local", destination_version="v3"}
       ```
       
       This query returns the current total count of all requests to the v3 of the reviews service.

    - Rate of requests over the past 5 minutes to all `productpage` services:

       ```
       rate(request_count{destination_service=~"productpage.*", response_code="200"}[5m])
       ```

### About the Prometheus Add-on

Mixer comes with a built-in [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) adapter that
exposes an endpoint serving generated metric values. The Prometheus add-on is a
Prometheus server that comes pre-configured to scrape Mixer endpoints to collect
the exposed metrics. It provides a mechanism for persistent storage and querying
of Istio metrics. 

The configured Prometheus add-on scrapes three endpoints:
1. *istio-mesh* (`istio-mixer.istio-system:42422`): all Mixer-generated mesh
   metrics.
1. *mixer* (`istio-mixer.istio-system:9093`): all Mixer-specific metrics. Used
   to monitor Mixer itself.
1. *envoy* (`istio-mixer.istio-system:9102`): raw stats generated by Envoy (and
   translated from statsd to prometheus).

For more on querying Prometheus, please read their [querying
docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/querying/basics/).

## Cleanup

* In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command to remove the
  Prometheus add-on:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
  ```

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [BookInfo cleanup]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

## Further reading

* Refer to the [In-Depth Telemetry]({{home}}/docs/guides/telemetry.html) guide.
