_docs/tasks/telemetry/servicegraph.md, before:

---
title: Generating an Istio Service Graph

overview: This task shows you how to generate a graph of services within an Istio mesh.

order: 25

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows you how to setup and use the Istio Dashboard to monitor mesh
traffic. As part of this task, you will install the Grafana Istio addon and use
the web-based interface for viewing service mesh traffic data.

The [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

* Install the Prometheus add-on. Directions for install of this add-on are
  supplied as part of the [Querying
  Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html) Task.
  
  Use of the Prometheus add-on is _required_ for the Istio Dashboard.

## Generating a Service Graph

1. To view a graphical representation of your service mesh, install the
   Servicegraph add-on.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/servicegraph.yaml
    ```

1. Verify that the service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system get svc servicegraph
    ```

    The output will be similar to:

    ```
    NAME           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    servicegraph   10.59.253.165   <none>        8088/TCP   30s
    ```

1. Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the BookInfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

   Refresh the page a few times (or send the command a few times) to generate a
   small amount of traffic.

   Note: `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the
   [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) guide.

1. Open the Servicegraph UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=servicegraph -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 8088:8088 &   
    ```

    Visit [http://localhost:8088/dotviz](http://localhost:8088/dotviz) in your web browser.

    The results will look similar to:

<figure><img style="max-width:100%" src="./img/servicegraph-example.png"
alt="Example Servicegraph" title="Example Servicegraph" /> <figcaption>Example
Servicegraph</figcaption></figure>
    
### About the Servicegraph Add-on

The Servicegraph service is an example service that provides endpoints for
generating and visualizing a graph of services within a mesh. It exposes the
following endpoints:

- `/graph` which provides a JSON serialization of the servicegraph
- `/dotgraph` which provides a dot serialization of the servicegraph
- `/dotviz` which provides a visual representation of the servicegraph

All endpoints take an optional argument of `time_horizon`, which controls the
timespan to consider for graph generation.

All endpoints also take an optional argument of `filter_empty=true`, which will
restrict the nodes and edges shown to only those that reflect non-zero traffic
levels during the specified `time_horizon`.

The Servicegraph example is built on top of Prometheus queries.

## Cleanup

In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command to remove the
ServiceGraph add-on:

```bash
kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/addons/servicegraph.yaml
```

Commit message:

Clean up tasks (#549)
* Adding guides for telemetry

* nits

* nit

* egress

* consul install file fix

* more task cleanup

* nits

* update telemetry tasks

* more tweaks

* remove what's next

* tweaks to security tasks

* some nits to telemetry guide

* overall tweaks

_docs/tasks/telemetry/servicegraph.md, after:

---
title: Generating a Service Graph

overview: This task shows you how to generate a graph of services within an Istio mesh.

order: 50

layout: docs
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

This task shows you how to setup and use the Istio Dashboard to monitor mesh
traffic. As part of this task, you will install the Grafana Istio addon and use
the web-based interface for viewing service mesh traffic data.

The [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used as
the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
  application.

* Install the Prometheus add-on. Directions for install of this add-on are
  supplied as part of the [Querying
  Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html) Task.
  
  Use of the Prometheus add-on is _required_ for the Istio Dashboard.

## Generating a Service Graph

1. To view a graphical representation of your service mesh, install the
   Servicegraph add-on.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/servicegraph.yaml
    ```

1. Verify that the service is running in your cluster.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system get svc servicegraph
    ```

    The output will be similar to:

    ```
    NAME           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
    servicegraph   10.59.253.165   <none>        8088/TCP   30s
    ```

1. Send traffic to the mesh.

    For the BookInfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
    browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

   Refresh the page a few times (or send the command a few times) to generate a
   small amount of traffic.

   Note: `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the
   [BookInfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) guide.

1. Open the Servicegraph UI.

    In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=servicegraph -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 8088:8088 &   
    ```

    Visit [http://localhost:8088/dotviz](http://localhost:8088/dotviz) in your web browser.

    The results will look similar to:

<figure><img style="max-width:100%" src="./img/servicegraph-example.png"
alt="Example Servicegraph" title="Example Servicegraph" /> <figcaption>Example
Servicegraph</figcaption></figure>
    
### About the Servicegraph Add-on

The Servicegraph service is an example service that provides endpoints for
generating and visualizing a graph of services within a mesh. It exposes the
following endpoints:

- `/graph` which provides a JSON serialization of the servicegraph
- `/dotgraph` which provides a dot serialization of the servicegraph
- `/dotviz` which provides a visual representation of the servicegraph

All endpoints take an optional argument of `time_horizon`, which controls the
timespan to consider for graph generation.

All endpoints also take an optional argument of `filter_empty=true`, which will
restrict the nodes and edges shown to only those that reflect non-zero traffic
levels during the specified `time_horizon`.

The Servicegraph example is built on top of Prometheus queries.

## Cleanup

* In Kubernetes environments, execute the following command to remove the
  ServiceGraph add-on:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete -f install/kubernetes/addons/servicegraph.yaml
  ```

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [BookInfo cleanup]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.
