_docs/tasks/telemetry/tcp-metrics.md, before:

---
title: Collecting Metrics for TCP services

overview: This task shows you how to configure Istio to collect metrics for TCP services.

order: 25

layout: docs
type: markdown
---

{% include home.html %}

This task shows how to configure Istio to automatically gather telemetry for TCP
services in a mesh. At the end of this task, a new metric will be enabled for
calls to a TCP service within your mesh.

The [Bookinfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used
as the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
application.

* This task assumes that the Bookinfo sample will be deployed in the `default`
namespace. If you use a different namespace, you will need to update the
example configuration and commands.

* Install the Prometheus add-on. Prometheus
will be used to verify task success.

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
   ```

   See [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) for details.

## Collecting new telemetry data

1. Create a new YAML file to hold configuration for the new metrics that Istio
will generate and collect automatically.

   Save the following as `tcp_telemetry.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   # Configuration for a metric measuring bytes sent from a server
   # to a client
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: metric
   metadata:
     name: mongosentbytes
     namespace: default
   spec:
     value: connection.sent.bytes | 0 # uses a TCP-specific attribute
     dimensions:
       source_service: source.service | "unknown"
       source_version: source.labels["version"] | "unknown"
       destination_version: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
     monitoredResourceType: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a metric measuring bytes sent from a client
   # to a server
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: metric
   metadata:
     name: mongoreceivedbytes
     namespace: default
   spec:
     value: connection.received.bytes | 0 # uses a TCP-specific attribute
     dimensions:
       source_service: source.service | "unknown"
       source_version: source.labels["version"] | "unknown"
       destination_version: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
     monitoredResourceType: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: prometheus
   metadata:
     name: mongohandler
     namespace: default
   spec:
     metrics:
     - name: mongo_sent_bytes # Prometheus metric name
       instance_name: mongosentbytes.metric.default # Mixer instance name (fully-qualified)
       kind: COUNTER
       label_names:
       - source_service
       - source_version
       - destination_version
     - name: mongo_received_bytes # Prometheus metric name
       instance_name: mongoreceivedbytes.metric.default # Mixer instance name (fully-qualified)
       kind: COUNTER
       label_names:
       - source_service
       - source_version
       - destination_version
   ---
   # Rule to send metric instances to a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: rule
   metadata:
     name: mongoprom
     namespace: default
   spec:
     match: context.protocol == "tcp"
            && destination.service == "mongodb.default.svc.cluster.local"
     actions:
     - handler: mongohandler.prometheus
       instances:
       - mongoreceivedbytes.metric
       - mongosentbytes.metric
   ```

1. Push the new configuration.

   ```bash
   istioctl create -f tcp_telemetry.yaml
   ```

   The expected output is similar to:

   ```xxx
   Created config metric/default/mongosentbytes at revision 3852843
   Created config metric/default/mongoreceivedbytes at revision 3852844
   Created config prometheus/default/mongohandler at revision 3852845
   Created config rule/default/mongoprom at revision 3852846
   ```

1. Setup Bookinfo to use MongoDB.

   1. Install `v2` of the `ratings` service.

      If you are using a cluster with automatic sidecar injection enabled,
      simply deploy the services using `kubectl`:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-ratings-v2.yaml
      ```

      If you are using manual sidecar injection, use the following command instead:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-ratings-v2.yaml)
      ```

      Expected output:

      ```xxx
      deployment "ratings-v2" configured
      ```

   1. Install the `mongodb` service:

      If you are using a cluster with automatic sidecar injection enabled,
      simply deploy the services using `kubectl`:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml
      ```

      If you are using manual sidecar injection, use the following command instead:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml)
      ```

      Expected output:

      ```xxx
      service "mongodb" configured
      deployment "mongodb-v1" configured
      ```

   1. Add routing rules to send traffic to `v2` of the `ratings` service:

      ```bash
      istioctl create -f samples/bookinfo/kube/route-rule-ratings-db.yaml
      ```

      Expected output:

      ```xxxx
      Created config route-rule//ratings-test-v2 at revision 7216403
      Created config route-rule//reviews-test-ratings-v2 at revision 7216404
      ```

1. Send traffic to the sample application.

   For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
   browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

1. Verify that the new metric values are being generated and collected.

   In a Kubernetes environment, setup port-forwarding for Prometheus by
   executing the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
   ```

   View values for the new metric via the [Prometheus UI](http://localhost:9090/graph#%5B%7B%22range_input%22%3A%221h%22%2C%22expr%22%3A%22istio_mongo_received_bytes%22%2C%22tab%22%3A1%7D%5D).

   The provided link opens the Prometheus UI and executes a query for values of
   the `istio_mongo_received_bytes` metric. The table displayed in the
   **Console** tab includes entries similar to:

   ```xxx
   istio_mongo_received_bytes{destination_version="v1",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",source_service="ratings.default.svc.cluster.local",source_version="v2"} 2317
   ```

   > Istio also collects protocol-specific statistics for MongoDB. For
   > example, the value of total OP_QUERY messages sent from the `ratings` service
   > is collected in the following metric:
   > `envoy_mongo_mongo_collection_ratings_query_total` (click
   > (click [here](http://localhost:9090/graph#%5B%7B%22range_input%22%3A%221h%22%2C%22expr%22%3A%22envoy_mongo_mongo_collection_ratings_query_total%22%2C%22tab%22%3A1%7D%5D)
   > to execute the query).

## Understanding TCP telemetry collection

In this task, you added Istio configuration that instructed Mixer to
automatically generate and report a new metric for all traffic to a TCP service
within the mesh.

Similar to the [Collecting Metrics and
Logs]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics-logs.html) Task, the new
configuration consisted of _instances_, a _handler_, and a _rule_. Please see
that Task for a complete description of the components of metric collection.

Metrics collection for TCP services differs only in the limited set of
attributes that are available for use in _instances_.

### TCP Attributes

Several TCP-specific attributes enable TCP policy and control within Istio.
These attributes are generated by server-side Envoy proxies and forwarded to
Mixer at both connection establishment and connection close. Additionally,
context attributes provide the ability to distinguish between `http` and `tcp`
protocols within policies.

{% include figure.html width='100%' ratio='192.50%'
    img='./img/istio-tcp-attribute-flow.svg'
    alt='Attribute Generation Flow for TCP Services in an Istio Mesh.'
    title='TCP Attribute Flow'
    caption='TCP Attribute Flow'
    %}

## Cleanup

* Remove the new telemetry configuration:

   ```bash
   istioctl delete -f tcp_telemetry.yaml
   ```

* Remove the `port-forward` process:

   ```bash
   killall kubectl
   ```

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

## What's next

* Learn more about [Mixer]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer.html)
and [Mixer Config]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer-config.html).

* Discover the full [Attribute
Vocabulary]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/mixer/attribute-vocabulary.html).

* Refer to the [In-Depth Telemetry]({{home}}/docs/guides/telemetry.html) guide.

* Learn more about [Querying Istio
Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html).

* Learn more about the [MongoDB-specific statistics generated by
Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/network_filters/mongo_proxy_filter#statistics).

Commit message:

Update doc for TCP periodical report. (#1095)
* Update doc for TCP periodical report.

* Add report response arrow into svg.

_docs/tasks/telemetry/tcp-metrics.md, after:

---
title: Collecting Metrics for TCP services

overview: This task shows you how to configure Istio to collect metrics for TCP services.

order: 25

layout: docs
type: markdown
---

{% include home.html %}

This task shows how to configure Istio to automatically gather telemetry for TCP
services in a mesh. At the end of this task, a new metric will be enabled for
calls to a TCP service within your mesh.

The [Bookinfo]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html) sample application is used
as the example application throughout this task.

## Before you begin

* [Install Istio]({{home}}/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an
application.

* This task assumes that the Bookinfo sample will be deployed in the `default`
namespace. If you use a different namespace, you will need to update the
example configuration and commands.

* Install the Prometheus add-on. Prometheus
will be used to verify task success.

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f install/kubernetes/addons/prometheus.yaml
   ```

   See [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) for details.

## Collecting new telemetry data

1. Create a new YAML file to hold configuration for the new metrics that Istio
will generate and collect automatically.

   Save the following as `tcp_telemetry.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   # Configuration for a metric measuring bytes sent from a server
   # to a client
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: metric
   metadata:
     name: mongosentbytes
     namespace: default
   spec:
     value: connection.sent.bytes | 0 # uses a TCP-specific attribute
     dimensions:
       source_service: source.service | "unknown"
       source_version: source.labels["version"] | "unknown"
       destination_version: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
     monitoredResourceType: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a metric measuring bytes sent from a client
   # to a server
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: metric
   metadata:
     name: mongoreceivedbytes
     namespace: default
   spec:
     value: connection.received.bytes | 0 # uses a TCP-specific attribute
     dimensions:
       source_service: source.service | "unknown"
       source_version: source.labels["version"] | "unknown"
       destination_version: destination.labels["version"] | "unknown"
     monitoredResourceType: '"UNSPECIFIED"'
   ---
   # Configuration for a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: prometheus
   metadata:
     name: mongohandler
     namespace: default
   spec:
     metrics:
     - name: mongo_sent_bytes # Prometheus metric name
       instance_name: mongosentbytes.metric.default # Mixer instance name (fully-qualified)
       kind: COUNTER
       label_names:
       - source_service
       - source_version
       - destination_version
     - name: mongo_received_bytes # Prometheus metric name
       instance_name: mongoreceivedbytes.metric.default # Mixer instance name (fully-qualified)
       kind: COUNTER
       label_names:
       - source_service
       - source_version
       - destination_version
   ---
   # Rule to send metric instances to a Prometheus handler
   apiVersion: "config.istio.io/v1alpha2"
   kind: rule
   metadata:
     name: mongoprom
     namespace: default
   spec:
     match: context.protocol == "tcp"
            && destination.service == "mongodb.default.svc.cluster.local"
     actions:
     - handler: mongohandler.prometheus
       instances:
       - mongoreceivedbytes.metric
       - mongosentbytes.metric
   ```

1. Push the new configuration.

   ```bash
   istioctl create -f tcp_telemetry.yaml
   ```

   The expected output is similar to:

   ```xxx
   Created config metric/default/mongosentbytes at revision 3852843
   Created config metric/default/mongoreceivedbytes at revision 3852844
   Created config prometheus/default/mongohandler at revision 3852845
   Created config rule/default/mongoprom at revision 3852846
   ```

1. Setup Bookinfo to use MongoDB.

   1. Install `v2` of the `ratings` service.

      If you are using a cluster with automatic sidecar injection enabled,
      simply deploy the services using `kubectl`:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-ratings-v2.yaml
      ```

      If you are using manual sidecar injection, use the following command instead:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-ratings-v2.yaml)
      ```

      Expected output:

      ```xxx
      deployment "ratings-v2" configured
      ```

   1. Install the `mongodb` service:

      If you are using a cluster with automatic sidecar injection enabled,
      simply deploy the services using `kubectl`:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml
      ```

      If you are using manual sidecar injection, use the following command instead:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/bookinfo/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml)
      ```

      Expected output:

      ```xxx
      service "mongodb" configured
      deployment "mongodb-v1" configured
      ```

   1. Add routing rules to send traffic to `v2` of the `ratings` service:

      ```bash
      istioctl create -f samples/bookinfo/kube/route-rule-ratings-db.yaml
      ```

      Expected output:

      ```xxxx
      Created config route-rule//ratings-test-v2 at revision 7216403
      Created config route-rule//reviews-test-ratings-v2 at revision 7216404
      ```

1. Send traffic to the sample application.

   For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
   browser or issue the following command:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
   ```

1. Verify that the new metric values are being generated and collected.

   In a Kubernetes environment, setup port-forwarding for Prometheus by
   executing the following command:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
   ```

   View values for the new metric via the [Prometheus UI](http://localhost:9090/graph#%5B%7B%22range_input%22%3A%221h%22%2C%22expr%22%3A%22istio_mongo_received_bytes%22%2C%22tab%22%3A1%7D%5D).

   The provided link opens the Prometheus UI and executes a query for values of
   the `istio_mongo_received_bytes` metric. The table displayed in the
   **Console** tab includes entries similar to:

   ```xxx
   istio_mongo_received_bytes{destination_version="v1",instance="istio-mixer.istio-system:42422",job="istio-mesh",source_service="ratings.default.svc.cluster.local",source_version="v2"} 2317
   ```

   > Istio also collects protocol-specific statistics for MongoDB. For
   > example, the value of total OP_QUERY messages sent from the `ratings` service
   > is collected in the following metric:
   > `envoy_mongo_mongo_collection_ratings_query_total` (click
   > (click [here](http://localhost:9090/graph#%5B%7B%22range_input%22%3A%221h%22%2C%22expr%22%3A%22envoy_mongo_mongo_collection_ratings_query_total%22%2C%22tab%22%3A1%7D%5D)
   > to execute the query).

## Understanding TCP telemetry collection

In this task, you added Istio configuration that instructed Mixer to
automatically generate and report a new metric for all traffic to a TCP service
within the mesh.

Similar to the [Collecting Metrics and
Logs]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics-logs.html) Task, the new
configuration consisted of _instances_, a _handler_, and a _rule_. Please see
that Task for a complete description of the components of metric collection.

Metrics collection for TCP services differs only in the limited set of
attributes that are available for use in _instances_.

### TCP Attributes

Several TCP-specific attributes enable TCP policy and control within Istio.
These attributes are generated by server-side Envoy proxies. They are forwarded to Mixer at connection establishment, and forwarded periodically when connection is alive (periodical report), and forwarded at connection close (final report). The default interval for periodical report is 10 seconds, and it should be at least 1 second. Additionally, context attributes provide the ability to distinguish between `http` and `tcp`
protocols within policies.

{% include figure.html width='100%' ratio='192.50%'
    img='./img/istio-tcp-attribute-flow.svg'
    alt='Attribute Generation Flow for TCP Services in an Istio Mesh.'
    title='TCP Attribute Flow'
    caption='TCP Attribute Flow'
    %}

## Cleanup

* Remove the new telemetry configuration:

   ```bash
   istioctl delete -f tcp_telemetry.yaml
   ```

* Remove the `port-forward` process:

   ```bash
   killall kubectl
   ```

* If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup]({{home}}/docs/guides/bookinfo.html#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

## What's next

* Learn more about [Mixer]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer.html)
and [Mixer Config]({{home}}/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer-config.html).

* Discover the full [Attribute
Vocabulary]({{home}}/docs/reference/config/mixer/attribute-vocabulary.html).

* Refer to the [In-Depth Telemetry]({{home}}/docs/guides/telemetry.html) guide.

* Learn more about [Querying Istio
Metrics]({{home}}/docs/tasks/telemetry/querying-metrics.html).

* Learn more about the [MongoDB-specific statistics generated by
Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/network_filters/mongo_proxy_filter#statistics).
