content/en/docs/ops/configuration/mesh/secret-creation/index.md, before:

---
title: Service Account Secret Creation
description: Describes how Citadel determines whether to create service account secrets.
weight: 30
---

When a Citadel instance notices that a `ServiceAccount` is created in a namespace, it must decide whether
it should generate an `istio.io/key-and-cert` secret for that `ServiceAccount`.
In order to make that decision, Citadel considers three inputs (note: there can be multiple Citadel instances
deployed in a single cluster, and the following targeting rules are applied to each instance):

1. `ca.istio.io/env` namespace label: *string valued* label containing the namespace of the desired Citadel instance

1. `ca.istio.io/override` namespace label: *boolean valued* label which overrides all other configurations and forces all Citadel instances either to target or ignore a namespace

1. [`enableNamespacesByDefault` security configuration](/docs/reference/config/installation-options/#security-options): default behavior if no labels are found on the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace

From these three values, the decision process mirrors that of the [`Sidecar Injection Webhook`](/docs/ops/configuration/mesh/injection-concepts/). The detailed behavior is that:

- If `ca.istio.io/override` exists and is `true`, generate key/cert secrets for workloads.

- Otherwise, if `ca.istio.io/override` exists and is `false`, don't generate key/cert secrets for workloads.

- Otherwise, if a `ca.istio.io/env: "ns-foo"` label is defined in the service account's namespace, the Citadel instance in namespace `ns-foo` will be used for generating key/cert secrets for workloads in the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace.

- Otherwise, set `enableNamespacesByDefault` to `true` during installation. If it is `true`, the default Citadel instance will be used for generating key/cert secrets for workloads in the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace.

- Otherwise, no secrets are created for the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace.

This logic is captured in the truth table below:

| `ca.istio.io/override` value | `ca.istio.io/env` match | `enableNamespacesByDefault` configuration | Workload secret created |
|------------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
|`true` | yes | `true` | yes |
|`true` | yes | `false` | yes |
|`true` | no | `true` | yes |
|`true` | no | `false` | yes |
|`true` | unset | `true` | yes |
|`true` | unset | `false` | yes |
|`false` | yes | `true` | no |
|`false` | yes | `false` | no |
|`false` | no | `true` | no |
|`false` | no | `false` | no |
|`false` | unset | `true` | no |
|`false` | unset | `false` | no |
|unset| yes | `true` | yes |
|unset| yes | `false` | yes |
|unset| no | `true` | no |
|unset| no | `false` | no |
|unset| unset | `true` | yes |
|unset| unset | `false` | no |

{{< idea >}}
When a namespace transitions from _disabled_ to _enabled_, Citadel will retroactively generate secrets for all `ServiceAccounts` in that namespace. When transitioning from _enabled_ to _disabled_, however, Citadel will not delete the namespace's generated secrets until the root certificate is renewed.
{{< /idea >}}

Commit message:

Add note to citadel doc (#6667)

content/en/docs/ops/configuration/mesh/secret-creation/index.md, after:

---
title: Service Account Secret Creation
description: Describes how Citadel determines whether to create service account secrets.
weight: 30
---

    {{< warning >}}
    This document describes the behavior of Citadel, which is not enabled by default.
    {{< /warning >}}

When a Citadel instance notices that a `ServiceAccount` is created in a namespace, it must decide whether
it should generate an `istio.io/key-and-cert` secret for that `ServiceAccount`.
In order to make that decision, Citadel considers three inputs (note: there can be multiple Citadel instances
deployed in a single cluster, and the following targeting rules are applied to each instance):

1. `ca.istio.io/env` namespace label: *string valued* label containing the namespace of the desired Citadel instance

1. `ca.istio.io/override` namespace label: *boolean valued* label which overrides all other configurations and forces all Citadel instances either to target or ignore a namespace

1. [`enableNamespacesByDefault` security configuration](/docs/reference/config/installation-options/#security-options): default behavior if no labels are found on the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace

From these three values, the decision process mirrors that of the [`Sidecar Injection Webhook`](/docs/ops/configuration/mesh/injection-concepts/). The detailed behavior is that:

- If `ca.istio.io/override` exists and is `true`, generate key/cert secrets for workloads.

- Otherwise, if `ca.istio.io/override` exists and is `false`, don't generate key/cert secrets for workloads.

- Otherwise, if a `ca.istio.io/env: "ns-foo"` label is defined in the service account's namespace, the Citadel instance in namespace `ns-foo` will be used for generating key/cert secrets for workloads in the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace.

- Otherwise, set `enableNamespacesByDefault` to `true` during installation. If it is `true`, the default Citadel instance will be used for generating key/cert secrets for workloads in the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace.

- Otherwise, no secrets are created for the `ServiceAccount`'s namespace.

This logic is captured in the truth table below:

| `ca.istio.io/override` value | `ca.istio.io/env` match | `enableNamespacesByDefault` configuration | Workload secret created |
|------------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
|`true` | yes | `true` | yes |
|`true` | yes | `false` | yes |
|`true` | no | `true` | yes |
|`true` | no | `false` | yes |
|`true` | unset | `true` | yes |
|`true` | unset | `false` | yes |
|`false` | yes | `true` | no |
|`false` | yes | `false` | no |
|`false` | no | `true` | no |
|`false` | no | `false` | no |
|`false` | unset | `true` | no |
|`false` | unset | `false` | no |
|unset| yes | `true` | yes |
|unset| yes | `false` | yes |
|unset| no | `true` | no |
|unset| no | `false` | no |
|unset| unset | `true` | yes |
|unset| unset | `false` | no |

{{< idea >}}
When a namespace transitions from _disabled_ to _enabled_, Citadel will retroactively generate secrets for all `ServiceAccounts` in that namespace. When transitioning from _enabled_ to _disabled_, however, Citadel will not delete the namespace's generated secrets until the root certificate is renewed.
{{< /idea >}}
