content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring/index.md, before:

---
title: Mirroring
description: This task demonstrates the traffic mirroring/shadowing capabilities of Istio.
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,mirroring]
---

This task demonstrates the traffic mirroring capabilities of Istio.

Traffic mirroring, also called shadowing, is a powerful concept that allows
feature teams to bring changes to production with as little risk as possible.
Mirroring sends a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service. The mirrored
traffic happens out of band of the critical request path for the primary service.

In this task, you will first force all traffic to `v1` of a test service. Then,
you will apply a rule to mirror a portion of traffic to `v2`.

## Before you begin

* Set up Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Start by deploying two versions of the [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/httpbin) service that have access logging enabled:

    **httpbin-v1:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: httpbin-v1
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: httpbin
            version: v1
        spec:
          containers:
          - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
            name: httpbin
            command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    **httpbin-v2:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: httpbin-v2
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: httpbin
            version: v2
        spec:
          containers:
          - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
            name: httpbin
            command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    **httpbin Kubernetes service:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
      labels:
        app: httpbin
    spec:
      ports:
      - name: http
        port: 8080
      selector:
        app: httpbin
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

*   Start the `sleep` service so you can use `curl` to provide load:

    **sleep service:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: sleep
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: sleep
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: sleep
            image: tutum/curl
            command: ["/bin/sleep","infinity"]
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Creating a default routing policy

By default Kubernetes load balances across both versions of the `httpbin` service.
In this step, you will change that behavior so that all traffic goes to `v1`.

1.  Create a default route rule to route all traffic to `v1` of the service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      hosts:
        - httpbin
      http:
      - route:
        - destination:
            host: httpbin
            subset: v1
          weight: 100
    ---
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: DestinationRule
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      host: httpbin
      subsets:
      - name: v1
        labels:
          version: v1
      - name: v2
        labels:
          version: v2
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    > NOTE: If you installed/configured Istio with mutual TLS Authentication enabled, you must add the [TLSSettings.TLSmode]( /docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#TLSSettings-TLSmode), `mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL` as noted in the [TLSSettings](/docs/reference/config/istio.networking.v1alpha3/#TLSSettings) reference.

    Now all traffic goes to the `httpbin v1` service.

1. Send some traffic to the service:

    {{< text bash json >}}
    $ export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    {
      "headers": {
        "Accept": "*/*",
        "Content-Length": "0",
        "Host": "httpbin:8080",
        "User-Agent": "curl/7.35.0",
        "X-B3-Sampled": "1",
        "X-B3-Spanid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-B3-Traceid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-Ot-Span-Context": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;0000000000000000"
      }
    }
    {{< /text >}}

1. Check the logs for `v1` and `v2` of the `httpbin` pods. You should see access
log entries for `v1` and none for `v2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export V1_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v1 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export V2_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v2 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    <none>
    {{< /text >}}

## Mirroring traffic to v2

1.  Change the route rule to mirror traffic to v2:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      hosts:
        - httpbin
      http:
      - route:
        - destination:
            host: httpbin
            subset: v1
          weight: 100
        mirror:
          host: httpbin
          subset: v2
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    This route rule sends 100% of the traffic to `v1`. The last stanza specifies
    that you want to mirror to the `httpbin v2` service. When traffic gets mirrored,
    the requests are sent to the mirrored service with their Host/Authority headers
    appended with `-shadow`. For example, `cluster-1` becomes `cluster-1-shadow`.

    Also, it is important to note that these requests are mirrored as "fire and
    forget", which means that the responses are discarded.

1. Send in traffic:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    {{< /text >}}

    Now, you should see access logging for both `v1` and `v2`. The access logs
    created in `v2` are the mirrored requests that are actually going to `v1`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 361 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    {{< /text >}}

## Cleaning up

1.  Remove the rules:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete virtualservice httpbin
    $ kubectl delete destinationrule httpbin
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Shutdown the [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/httpbin) service and client:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete deploy httpbin-v1 httpbin-v2 sleep
    $ kubectl delete svc httpbin
    {{< /text >}}

1. If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.

Commit message:

Add a note about mTLS in the Circuit Breaking task (#2444)
If mTLS is enabled we need an additional instruction in the
DestinationRule object, otherwise we break traffic to httpbin
service.

While on that, also change the Mirroring task note to be the same.

content/docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring/index.md, after:

---
title: Mirroring
description: This task demonstrates the traffic mirroring/shadowing capabilities of Istio.
weight: 60
keywords: [traffic-management,mirroring]
---

This task demonstrates the traffic mirroring capabilities of Istio.

Traffic mirroring, also called shadowing, is a powerful concept that allows
feature teams to bring changes to production with as little risk as possible.
Mirroring sends a copy of live traffic to a mirrored service. The mirrored
traffic happens out of band of the critical request path for the primary service.

In this task, you will first force all traffic to `v1` of a test service. Then,
you will apply a rule to mirror a portion of traffic to `v2`.

## Before you begin

* Set up Istio by following the instructions in the
  [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

*   Start by deploying two versions of the [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/httpbin) service that have access logging enabled:

    **httpbin-v1:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: httpbin-v1
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: httpbin
            version: v1
        spec:
          containers:
          - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
            name: httpbin
            command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    **httpbin-v2:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: httpbin-v2
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: httpbin
            version: v2
        spec:
          containers:
          - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
            name: httpbin
            command: ["gunicorn", "--access-logfile", "-", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8080", "httpbin:app"]
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    **httpbin Kubernetes service:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
      labels:
        app: httpbin
    spec:
      ports:
      - name: http
        port: 8080
      selector:
        app: httpbin
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

*   Start the `sleep` service so you can use `curl` to provide load:

    **sleep service:**

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | istioctl kube-inject -f - | kubectl create -f -
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: sleep
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: sleep
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: sleep
            image: tutum/curl
            command: ["/bin/sleep","infinity"]
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Creating a default routing policy

By default Kubernetes load balances across both versions of the `httpbin` service.
In this step, you will change that behavior so that all traffic goes to `v1`.

1.  Create a default route rule to route all traffic to `v1` of the service:

    > If you installed/configured Istio with mutual TLS Authentication enabled, you must add a TLS traffic policy `mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL` to the `DestinationRule` before applying it. Otherwise requests will generate 503 errors as described [here](/help/ops/traffic-management/deploy-guidelines/#503-errors-after-setting-destination-rule).

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      hosts:
        - httpbin
      http:
      - route:
        - destination:
            host: httpbin
            subset: v1
          weight: 100
    ---
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: DestinationRule
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      host: httpbin
      subsets:
      - name: v1
        labels:
          version: v1
      - name: v2
        labels:
          version: v2
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Now all traffic goes to the `httpbin v1` service.

1. Send some traffic to the service:

    {{< text bash json >}}
    $ export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    {
      "headers": {
        "Accept": "*/*",
        "Content-Length": "0",
        "Host": "httpbin:8080",
        "User-Agent": "curl/7.35.0",
        "X-B3-Sampled": "1",
        "X-B3-Spanid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-B3-Traceid": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a",
        "X-Ot-Span-Context": "eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;eca3d7ed8f2e6a0a;0000000000000000"
      }
    }
    {{< /text >}}

1. Check the logs for `v1` and `v2` of the `httpbin` pods. You should see access
log entries for `v1` and none for `v2`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export V1_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v1 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export V2_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin,version=v2 -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    <none>
    {{< /text >}}

## Mirroring traffic to v2

1.  Change the route rule to mirror traffic to v2:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      hosts:
        - httpbin
      http:
      - route:
        - destination:
            host: httpbin
            subset: v1
          weight: 100
        mirror:
          host: httpbin
          subset: v2
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    This route rule sends 100% of the traffic to `v1`. The last stanza specifies
    that you want to mirror to the `httpbin v2` service. When traffic gets mirrored,
    the requests are sent to the mirrored service with their Host/Authority headers
    appended with `-shadow`. For example, `cluster-1` becomes `cluster-1-shadow`.

    Also, it is important to note that these requests are mirrored as "fire and
    forget", which means that the responses are discarded.

1. Send in traffic:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it $SLEEP_POD -c sleep -- sh -c 'curl  http://httpbin:8080/headers' | python -m json.tool
    {{< /text >}}

    Now, you should see access logging for both `v1` and `v2`. The access logs
    created in `v2` are the mirrored requests that are actually going to `v1`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -f $V1_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:02:43 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 321 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs -f $V2_POD -c httpbin
    127.0.0.1 - - [07/Mar/2018:19:26:44 +0000] "GET /headers HTTP/1.1" 200 361 "-" "curl/7.35.0"
    {{< /text >}}

## Cleaning up

1.  Remove the rules:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete virtualservice httpbin
    $ kubectl delete destinationrule httpbin
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Shutdown the [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/httpbin) service and client:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete deploy httpbin-v1 httpbin-v2 sleep
    $ kubectl delete svc httpbin
    {{< /text >}}

1. If you are not planning to explore any follow-on tasks, refer to the
  [Bookinfo cleanup](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#cleanup) instructions
  to shutdown the application.
