troubleshooting/index.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting Guide
overview: Practical advice on practical problems with Istio
layout: troubleshooting
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

# Troubleshooting Guide

Oh no! You have some problems? Let us help.

## Envoy won't connect to my HTTP/1.0 service

Envoy requires HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 traffic for upstream services. For example, when using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) for serving traffic behind Envoy, you will need to set the [proxy_http_version](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_http_version) directive in your NGINX config to be "1.1", since the NGINX default is 1.0

Example config:	

```
upstream http_backend {
    server 127.0.0.1:8080;

    keepalive 16;
}

server {
    ...

    location /http/ {
        proxy_pass http://http_backend;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Connection "";
        ...
    }
}
```

## Running multiple replicas of Mixer does not work 

For the {{site.data.istio.version}} release, Mixer **must** be configured to run as a single instance within a cluster. We are working on improvements at the protocol, configuration, and deployment levels to support multiple instance and high-availability deployments. We expect to remove this limitation shortly after the initial {{site.data.istio.version}} release.

Running multiple replicas of Mixer will lead to issues with configuration updates not propagating properly and improperly-enforced quotas (for the memQuota adapter).

## Mixer's pod was restarted and I lost my config updates

For the {{site.data.istio.version}} release, Mixer configuration is stored in a local file system-based store. By default, Mixer is not configured to use a Kubernetes persistent volume.

There are a few possible workarounds:

1.  Save configuration updates to a common location and script the application of these updates via istioctl.
1.  Configure a persistent volume and update the Mixer deployment specs to use that volume for the file system store.

Work is ongoing to provide a highly-available, persistent configuration store for Mixer. We expect this to work to land immediately following the initial {{site.data.istio.version}} release.

### Configuring a persistent volume for Mixer config

A Mixer deployment can be modified to use Kubernetes [`ConfigMaps`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configmap/) to provide persistent access to Mixer config. Kubernetes `ConfigMaps` are preserved across restarts and allow running multiple replicas of Mixer.

Note: `istioctl` is not usable for runtime updates to Mixer configuration when this approach is used (the updates will not persist).

Here is an example ConfigMap:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: mixer-config2
data:
  adapters.yml: |-
    # Config-map
    subject: global
    adapters:
      …
  descriptors.yml: |-
    subject: namespace:ns
    revision: "2022"
    …

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: mixer-configsubjects
data:
  rules.yml: |-
    …
     …

 lifecycle:
            postStart:
              exec:
                command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "cp /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/global/adapters.yml /etc/opt/mixer/configroot/scopes/global/adapters.yml; cp /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/global/descriptors.yml /etc/opt/mixer/configroot/scopes/global/descriptors.yml; cp /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/subjects/rules.yml /etc/opt/mixer/configroot/scopes/global/subjects/global/rules.yml" ]
 
      volumeMounts:
          - mountPath: /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/subjects
            name: configsubjects
          - mountPath: /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/global
            name: config
      volumes:
        - name: config
          configMap:
            name: mixer-config2
        - name: configsubjects
          configMap:
            name: mixer-configsubjects
```

## How can I debug issues with the service mesh?

### With [GDB](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/)

To debug Istio with `gdb`, you will need to run the debug images of Envoy / Mixer / Pilot. A recent `gdb` and the golang extensions (for Mixer/Pilot or other golang components) is required.

1.  `kubectl exec -it PODNAME -c [proxy | mixer | pilot]`
1.  Find process ID: ps ax 
1.  gdb -p PID binary
1.  For go: info goroutines, goroutine x bt

### With [Tcpdump](http://www.tcpdump.org/tcpdump_man.html)

Tcpdump doesn't work in the sidecar pod - the container doesn't run as root. However any other container in the same pod will see all the packets, since the network namespace is shared. `iptables` will also see the pod-wide config. 

Communication between Envoy and the app happens on 127.0.0.1, and is not encrypted. 

## Envoy is crashing under load

Check your `ulimit -a`. Many systems have a 1024 open file descriptor limit by default which will cause Envoy to assert and crash with:

```bash
[2017-05-17 03:00:52.735][14236][critical][assert] assert failure: fd_ != -1: external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:58
```

Make sure to raise your ulimit. Example: `ulimit -n 16384`

Commit message:

add time skew problem to troubleshooting guide (#388)

troubleshooting/index.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting Guide
overview: Practical advice on practical problems with Istio
layout: troubleshooting
type: markdown
---
{% include home.html %}

# Troubleshooting Guide

Oh no! You have some problems? Let us help.

## No traces appearing in Zipkin when running Istio locally on Mac

Istio is installed and everything seems to be working except there are no traces showing up in Zipkin when there
should be.

This may be caused by a known [Docker issue](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/1260) where the time inside
containers may skew significantly from the time on the host machine. If this is the case, 
when you select a very long date range in Zipin you will see the traces appearing as much as several days too early.

You can also confirm this problem by comparing the date inside a docker container to outside:

```bash
$ docker run --entrypoint date gcr.io/istio-testing/ubuntu-16-04-slave:latest
Sun Jun 11 11:44:18 UTC 2017
$ date -u
Thu Jun 15 02:25:42 UTC 2017
```

To fix the problem, you'll need to shutdown and then restart Docker before reinstalling Istio.

## Envoy won't connect to my HTTP/1.0 service

Envoy requires HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 traffic for upstream services. For example, when using [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/) for serving traffic behind Envoy, you will need to set the [proxy_http_version](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_http_version) directive in your NGINX config to be "1.1", since the NGINX default is 1.0

Example config:	

```
upstream http_backend {
    server 127.0.0.1:8080;

    keepalive 16;
}

server {
    ...

    location /http/ {
        proxy_pass http://http_backend;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Connection "";
        ...
    }
}
```

## Running multiple replicas of Mixer does not work 

For the {{site.data.istio.version}} release, Mixer **must** be configured to run as a single instance within a cluster. We are working on improvements at the protocol, configuration, and deployment levels to support multiple instance and high-availability deployments. We expect to remove this limitation shortly after the initial {{site.data.istio.version}} release.

Running multiple replicas of Mixer will lead to issues with configuration updates not propagating properly and improperly-enforced quotas (for the memQuota adapter).

## Mixer's pod was restarted and I lost my config updates

For the {{site.data.istio.version}} release, Mixer configuration is stored in a local file system-based store. By default, Mixer is not configured to use a Kubernetes persistent volume.

There are a few possible workarounds:

1.  Save configuration updates to a common location and script the application of these updates via istioctl.
1.  Configure a persistent volume and update the Mixer deployment specs to use that volume for the file system store.

Work is ongoing to provide a highly-available, persistent configuration store for Mixer. We expect this to work to land immediately following the initial {{site.data.istio.version}} release.

### Configuring a persistent volume for Mixer config

A Mixer deployment can be modified to use Kubernetes [`ConfigMaps`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configmap/) to provide persistent access to Mixer config. Kubernetes `ConfigMaps` are preserved across restarts and allow running multiple replicas of Mixer.

Note: `istioctl` is not usable for runtime updates to Mixer configuration when this approach is used (the updates will not persist).

Here is an example ConfigMap:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: mixer-config2
data:
  adapters.yml: |-
    # Config-map
    subject: global
    adapters:
      …
  descriptors.yml: |-
    subject: namespace:ns
    revision: "2022"
    …

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: mixer-configsubjects
data:
  rules.yml: |-
    …
     …

 lifecycle:
            postStart:
              exec:
                command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "cp /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/global/adapters.yml /etc/opt/mixer/configroot/scopes/global/adapters.yml; cp /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/global/descriptors.yml /etc/opt/mixer/configroot/scopes/global/descriptors.yml; cp /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/subjects/rules.yml /etc/opt/mixer/configroot/scopes/global/subjects/global/rules.yml" ]
 
      volumeMounts:
          - mountPath: /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/subjects
            name: configsubjects
          - mountPath: /etc/opt/mixer2/configroot/scopes/global
            name: config
      volumes:
        - name: config
          configMap:
            name: mixer-config2
        - name: configsubjects
          configMap:
            name: mixer-configsubjects
```

## How can I debug issues with the service mesh?

### With [GDB](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/)

To debug Istio with `gdb`, you will need to run the debug images of Envoy / Mixer / Pilot. A recent `gdb` and the golang extensions (for Mixer/Pilot or other golang components) is required.

1.  `kubectl exec -it PODNAME -c [proxy | mixer | pilot]`
1.  Find process ID: ps ax 
1.  gdb -p PID binary
1.  For go: info goroutines, goroutine x bt

### With [Tcpdump](http://www.tcpdump.org/tcpdump_man.html)

Tcpdump doesn't work in the sidecar pod - the container doesn't run as root. However any other container in the same pod will see all the packets, since the network namespace is shared. `iptables` will also see the pod-wide config. 

Communication between Envoy and the app happens on 127.0.0.1, and is not encrypted. 

## Envoy is crashing under load

Check your `ulimit -a`. Many systems have a 1024 open file descriptor limit by default which will cause Envoy to assert and crash with:

```bash
[2017-05-17 03:00:52.735][14236][critical][assert] assert failure: fd_ != -1: external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:58
```

Make sure to raise your ulimit. Example: `ulimit -n 16384`
