_about/contribute/style-guide.md, before:

---
title: Style Guide
overview: Explains the dos and donts of writing Istio docs.
              
order: 70

layout: about
type: markdown
redirect_from: /docs/welcome/contribute/style-guide.html
---

TBD: This needs to be updated with Istio examples instead of Kubernetes examples.

This page gives writing style guidelines for the Istio documentation.
These are guidelines, not rules. Use your best judgment, and feel free to
propose changes to this document in a pull request.

For additional information on creating new content for the Istio
docs, follow the instructions on
[Creating a Doc Pull Request](./creating-a-pull-request.html).

## Formatting standards

### Use camelCase for API objects

When you refer to an API object, use the same uppercase and lowercase letters
that are used in the actual object name. Typically, the names of API
objects use
[camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case).

Don't split the API object name into separate words. For example, use
PodTemplateList, not Pod Template List.

Refer to API objects without saying "object," unless omitting "object"
leads to an awkward construction.

|Do                                          |Don't
|--------------------------------------------|------
|The Pod has two Containers.                 |The pod has two containers.
|The Deployment is responsible for ...       |The Deployment object is responsible for ...
|A PodList is a list of Pods.                |A Pod List is a list of pods.
|The two ContainerPorts ...                  |The two ContainerPort objects ...
|The two ContainerStateTerminated objects ...|The two ContainerStateTerminated ...

### Use angle brackets for placeholders

Use angle brackets for placeholders. Tell the reader what a placeholder
represents.

1. Display information about a pod:

   ```bash
   kubectl describe pod <pod-name>
   ```
   
  where `<pod-name>` is the name of one of your pods.

### Use **bold** for user interface elements

|Do               |Don't
|-----------------|------
|Click **Fork**.  |Click "Fork".
|Select **Other**.|Select 'Other'.

### Use _italics_ to define or introduce new terms

|Do                                         |Don't
|-------------------------------------------|---
|A _cluster_ is a set of nodes ...          |A "cluster" is a set of nodes ...
|These components form the _control plane_. |These components form the **control plane**.

### Use `code` style for filenames, directories, and paths

|Do                                   | Don't
|-------------------------------------|------
|Open the `envars.yaml` file.         | Open the envars.yaml file.
|Go to the `/_docs/tasks` directory.  | Go to the /docs/tasks directory.
|Open the `_data/concepts.yaml` file. | Open the /_data/concepts.yaml file.

### Use `code` style for inline code and commands

|Do                          | Don't
|----------------------------|------
|The `kubectl run` command creates a Deployment.|The "kubectl run" command creates a Deployment.
|For declarative management, use `kubectl apply`.|For declarative management, use "kubectl apply".

### Use `code` style for object field names

|Do                                                               | Don't
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|------
|Set the value of the `replicas` field in the configuration file. | Set the value of the "replicas" field in the configuration file.
|The value of the `exec` field is an ExecAction object.           | The value of the "exec" field is an ExecAction object.

### Use normal style for string and integer field values

For field values of type string or integer, use normal style without quotation marks.

|Do                                            | Don't
|----------------------------------------------|------
|Set the value of `imagePullPolicy` to Always. | Set the value of `imagePullPolicy` to "Always".|Set the value of `image` to nginx:1.8.        | Set the value of `image` to `nginx:1.8`.
|Set the value of the `replicas` field to 2.   | Set the value of the `replicas` field to `2`.

### Only capitalize the first letter of headings

For any headings, only apply an uppercase letter to the first word of the heading,
except is a word is a proper noun or an acronym.

|Do                      | Don't
|------------------------|-----
|Configuring rate limits | Configuring Rate Limits
|Using Envoy for ingress | Using envoy for ingress
|Using HTTPS             | Using https 

## Code snippet formatting

### Don't include the command prompt

|Do               | Don't
|-----------------|------
|`kubectl get pods` | `$ kubectl get pods`

### Separate commands from output

Verify that the pod is running on your chosen node:

```bash
kubectl get pods --output=wide
```
The output is similar to this:

```bash
NAME     READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE    IP           NODE
nginx    1/1       Running   0          13s    10.200.0.4   worker0
```

## Terminology standards

Some standard terms we want to use consistently within the documentation for clarity.

### Envoy

We prefer to use “Envoy” as it’s a more concrete term than "proxy" and will resonate if used
consistently throughout the docs.

Synonyms:

- “Envoy sidecar” - ok
- “Envoy proxy” - ok
- “The Istio proxy” -- best to avoid unless you’re talking about advanced scenarios where another proxy might be used.
- “Sidecar”  -- mostly restricted to conceptual docs
- “Proxy -- only if context is obvious

Related Terms

- Proxy agent  - This is a minor infrastructural component and should only show up in low-level detail documentation.
It is not a proper noun.

### Mixer

Mixer is a proper noun and should be used as such:

- “You configure Mixer by ….”
- “Mixer provides a standard vehicle for implementing organizational wide policy”

### Attributes

Not a proper noun but we should attempt to consistently use the term to describe inputs to Mixer and NOT use the term when talking about other
forms of configuration.

### Load balancing

No dash, it's *load balancing* not *load-balancing*.

### Service mesh 

Not a proper noun. Use in place of service fabric.

### Service version

Use in the context of routing and multiple finer-grained versions of a service. Avoid using “service tags” or “service labels”
which are the mechanism to identify the service versions, not the thing itself.

## Content best practices

This section contains suggested best practices for clear, concise, and consistent content.

### Use present tense

|Do                           | Don't
|-----------------------------|------
|This command starts a proxy. | This command will start a proxy.

Exception: Use future or past tense if it is required to convey the correct
meaning.

### Use active voice

|Do                                         | Don't
|-------------------------------------------|------
|You can explore the API using a browser.   | The API can be explored using a browser.
|The YAML file specifies the replica count. | The replica count is specified in the YAML file.

Exception: Use passive voice if active voice leads to an awkward construction.

### Use simple and direct language

Use simple and direct language. Avoid using unnecessary phrases, such as saying "please."

|Do                          | Don't
|----------------------------|------
|To create a ReplicaSet, ... | In order to create a ReplicaSet, ...
|See the configuration file. | Please see the configuration file.
|View the Pods.              | With this next command, we'll view the Pods.

### Address the reader as "you"

|Do                                     | Don't
|---------------------------------------|------
|You can create a Deployment by ...     | We'll create a Deployment by ...
|In the preceding output, you can see...| In the preceding output, we can see ...

## Patterns to avoid

### Avoid using "we"

Using "we" in a sentence can be confusing, because the reader might not know
whether they're part of the "we" you're describing.

|Do                                        | Don't
|------------------------------------------|------
|Version 1.4 includes ...                  | In version 1.4, we have added ...
|Kubernetes provides a new feature for ... | We provide a new feature ...
|This page teaches you how to use pods.    | In this page, we are going to learn about pods.

### Avoid jargon and idioms

Some readers speak English as a second language. Avoid jargon and idioms to help make their understanding easier.

|Do                    | Don't
|----------------------|------
|Internally, ...       | Under the hood, ...
|Create a new cluster. | Turn up a new cluster.

### Avoid statements about the future

Avoid making promises or giving hints about the future. If you need to talk about
an alpha feature, put the text under a heading that identifies it as alpha
information.

### Avoid statements that will soon be out of date

Avoid words like "currently" and "new." A feature that is new today might not be
considered new in a few months.

|Do                                  | Don't
|------------------------------------|------
|In version 1.4, ...                 | In the current version, ...
|The Federation feature provides ... | The new Federation feature provides ...

Commit message:

Add an entry about creating quality hyperlinks. (#1114)

_about/contribute/style-guide.md, after:

---
title: Style Guide
overview: Explains the dos and donts of writing Istio docs.
              
order: 70

layout: about
type: markdown
redirect_from: /docs/welcome/contribute/style-guide.html
---

TBD: This needs to be updated with Istio examples instead of Kubernetes examples.

This page gives writing style guidelines for the Istio documentation.
These are guidelines, not rules. Use your best judgment, and feel free to
propose changes to this document in a pull request.

For additional information on creating new content for the Istio
docs, follow the instructions on
[Creating a Doc Pull Request](./creating-a-pull-request.html).

## Formatting standards

### Use camelCase for API objects

When you refer to an API object, use the same uppercase and lowercase letters
that are used in the actual object name. Typically, the names of API
objects use
[camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case).

Don't split the API object name into separate words. For example, use
PodTemplateList, not Pod Template List.

Refer to API objects without saying "object," unless omitting "object"
leads to an awkward construction.

|Do                                          |Don't
|--------------------------------------------|------
|The Pod has two Containers.                 |The pod has two containers.
|The Deployment is responsible for ...       |The Deployment object is responsible for ...
|A PodList is a list of Pods.                |A Pod List is a list of pods.
|The two ContainerPorts ...                  |The two ContainerPort objects ...
|The two ContainerStateTerminated objects ...|The two ContainerStateTerminated ...

### Use angle brackets for placeholders

Use angle brackets for placeholders. Tell the reader what a placeholder
represents.

1. Display information about a pod:

   ```bash
   kubectl describe pod <pod-name>
   ```
   
  where `<pod-name>` is the name of one of your pods.

### Use **bold** for user interface elements

|Do               |Don't
|-----------------|------
|Click **Fork**.  |Click "Fork".
|Select **Other**.|Select 'Other'.

### Use _italics_ to define or introduce new terms

|Do                                         |Don't
|-------------------------------------------|---
|A _cluster_ is a set of nodes ...          |A "cluster" is a set of nodes ...
|These components form the _control plane_. |These components form the **control plane**.

### Use `code` style for filenames, directories, and paths

|Do                                   | Don't
|-------------------------------------|------
|Open the `envars.yaml` file.         | Open the envars.yaml file.
|Go to the `/_docs/tasks` directory.  | Go to the /docs/tasks directory.
|Open the `_data/concepts.yaml` file. | Open the /_data/concepts.yaml file.

### Use `code` style for inline code and commands

|Do                          | Don't
|----------------------------|------
|The `kubectl run` command creates a Deployment.|The "kubectl run" command creates a Deployment.
|For declarative management, use `kubectl apply`.|For declarative management, use "kubectl apply".

### Use `code` style for object field names

|Do                                                               | Don't
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|------
|Set the value of the `replicas` field in the configuration file. | Set the value of the "replicas" field in the configuration file.
|The value of the `exec` field is an ExecAction object.           | The value of the "exec" field is an ExecAction object.

### Use normal style for string and integer field values

For field values of type string or integer, use normal style without quotation marks.

|Do                                            | Don't
|----------------------------------------------|------
|Set the value of `imagePullPolicy` to Always. | Set the value of `imagePullPolicy` to "Always".|Set the value of `image` to nginx:1.8.        | Set the value of `image` to `nginx:1.8`.
|Set the value of the `replicas` field to 2.   | Set the value of the `replicas` field to `2`.

### Only capitalize the first letter of headings

For any headings, only apply an uppercase letter to the first word of the heading,
except is a word is a proper noun or an acronym.

|Do                      | Don't
|------------------------|-----
|Configuring rate limits | Configuring Rate Limits
|Using Envoy for ingress | Using envoy for ingress
|Using HTTPS             | Using https 

## Code snippet formatting

### Don't include the command prompt

|Do               | Don't
|-----------------|------
|`kubectl get pods` | `$ kubectl get pods`

### Separate commands from output

Verify that the pod is running on your chosen node:

```bash
kubectl get pods --output=wide
```
The output is similar to this:

```bash
NAME     READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE    IP           NODE
nginx    1/1       Running   0          13s    10.200.0.4   worker0
```

## Terminology standards

Some standard terms we want to use consistently within the documentation for clarity.

### Envoy

We prefer to use “Envoy” as it’s a more concrete term than "proxy" and will resonate if used
consistently throughout the docs.

Synonyms:

- “Envoy sidecar” - ok
- “Envoy proxy” - ok
- “The Istio proxy” -- best to avoid unless you’re talking about advanced scenarios where another proxy might be used.
- “Sidecar”  -- mostly restricted to conceptual docs
- “Proxy -- only if context is obvious

Related Terms

- Proxy agent  - This is a minor infrastructural component and should only show up in low-level detail documentation.
It is not a proper noun.

### Mixer

Mixer is a proper noun and should be used as such:

- “You configure Mixer by ….”
- “Mixer provides a standard vehicle for implementing organizational wide policy”

### Attributes

Not a proper noun but we should attempt to consistently use the term to describe inputs to Mixer and NOT use the term when talking about other
forms of configuration.

### Load balancing

No dash, it's *load balancing* not *load-balancing*.

### Service mesh 

Not a proper noun. Use in place of service fabric.

### Service version

Use in the context of routing and multiple finer-grained versions of a service. Avoid using “service tags” or “service labels”
which are the mechanism to identify the service versions, not the thing itself.

## Content best practices

This section contains suggested best practices for clear, concise, and consistent content.

### Use present tense

|Do                           | Don't
|-----------------------------|------
|This command starts a proxy. | This command will start a proxy.

Exception: Use future or past tense if it is required to convey the correct
meaning.

### Use active voice

|Do                                         | Don't
|-------------------------------------------|------
|You can explore the API using a browser.   | The API can be explored using a browser.
|The YAML file specifies the replica count. | The replica count is specified in the YAML file.

Exception: Use passive voice if active voice leads to an awkward construction.

### Use simple and direct language

Use simple and direct language. Avoid using unnecessary phrases, such as saying "please."

|Do                          | Don't
|----------------------------|------
|To create a ReplicaSet, ... | In order to create a ReplicaSet, ...
|See the configuration file. | Please see the configuration file.
|View the Pods.              | With this next command, we'll view the Pods.

### Address the reader as "you"

|Do                                     | Don't
|---------------------------------------|------
|You can create a Deployment by ...     | We'll create a Deployment by ...
|In the preceding output, you can see...| In the preceding output, we can see ...

### Create useful links

There are good hyperlinks, and bad hyperlinks. The common practice of calling links *here*  or *click here* are examples of
bad hyperlinks. Check out this excellent article explaining what makes a good hyperlink and try to keep these guidelines in
mind when creating or reviewing site content.

[Why “click here” is a terrible link, and what to write instead](http://stephanieleary.com/2015/05/why-click-here-is-a-terrible-link-and-what-to-write-instead/).

## Patterns to avoid

### Avoid using "we"

Using "we" in a sentence can be confusing, because the reader might not know
whether they're part of the "we" you're describing.

|Do                                        | Don't
|------------------------------------------|------
|Version 1.4 includes ...                  | In version 1.4, we have added ...
|Kubernetes provides a new feature for ... | We provide a new feature ...
|This page teaches you how to use pods.    | In this page, we are going to learn about pods.

### Avoid jargon and idioms

Some readers speak English as a second language. Avoid jargon and idioms to help make their understanding easier.

|Do                    | Don't
|----------------------|------
|Internally, ...       | Under the hood, ...
|Create a new cluster. | Turn up a new cluster.

### Avoid statements about the future

Avoid making promises or giving hints about the future. If you need to talk about
an alpha feature, put the text under a heading that identifies it as alpha
information.

### Avoid statements that will soon be out of date

Avoid words like "currently" and "new." A feature that is new today might not be
considered new in a few months.

|Do                                  | Don't
|------------------------------------|------
|In version 1.4, ...                 | In the current version, ...
|The Federation feature provides ... | The new Federation feature provides ...
